CHAPTER 1.

THE EARTHQUAKE


The train from 'Frisco was very late. It should have arrived at Hugson's
siding at midnight, but it was already five o'clock and the gray dawn
was breaking in the east when the little train slowly rumbled up to the
open shed that served for the station-house. As it came to a stop the
conductor called out in a loud voice:

"Hugson's Siding!"

At once a little girl rose from her seat and walked to the door of the
car, carrying a wicker suit-case in one hand and a round bird-cage
covered up with newspapers in the other, while a parasol was tucked
under her arm. The conductor helped her off the car and then the
engineer started his train again, so that it puffed and groaned and
moved slowly away up the track. The reason he was so late was because
all through the night there were times when the solid earth shook and
trembled under him, and the engineer was afraid that at any moment the
rails might spread apart and an accident happen to his passengers. So he
moved the cars slowly and with caution.

The little girl stood still to watch until the train had disappeared
around a curve; then she turned to see where she was.

The shed at Hugson's Siding was bare save for an old wooden bench, and
did not look very inviting. As she peered through the soft gray light
not a house of any sort was visible near the station, nor was any person
in sight; but after a while the child discovered a horse and buggy
standing near a group of trees a short distance away. She walked toward
it and found the horse tied to a tree and standing motionless, with its
head hanging down almost to the ground. It was a big horse, tall and
bony, with long legs and large knees and feet. She could count his ribs
easily where they showed through the skin of his body, and his head was
long and seemed altogether too big for him, as if it did not fit. His
tail was short and scraggly, and his harness had been broken in many
places and fastened together again with cords and bits of wire. The
buggy seemed almost new, for it had a shiny top and side curtains.
Getting around in front, so that she could look inside, the girl saw a
boy curled up on the seat, fast asleep.

She set down the bird-cage and poked the boy with her parasol. Presently
he woke up, rose to a sitting position and rubbed his eyes briskly.

"Hello!" he said, seeing her, "are you Dorothy Gale?"

"Yes," she answered, looking gravely at his tousled hair and blinking
gray eyes. "Have you come to take me to Hugson's Ranch?"

"Of course," he answered. "Train in?"

"I couldn't be here if it wasn't," she said.

He laughed at that, and his laugh was merry and frank. Jumping out of
the buggy he put Dorothy's suit-case under the seat and her bird-cage on
the floor in front.

"Canary-birds?" he asked.

"Oh, no; it's just Eureka, my kitten. I thought that was the best way to
carry her."

The boy nodded.

"Eureka's a funny name for a cat," he remarked.

"I named my kitten that because I found it," she explained. "Uncle Henry
says 'Eureka' means 'I have found it.'"

"All right; hop in."

She climbed into the buggy and he followed her. Then the boy picked up
the reins, shook them, and said "Gid-dap!"

The horse did not stir. Dorothy thought he just wiggled one of his
drooping ears, but that was all.

"Gid-dap!" called the boy, again.

The horse stood still.

"Perhaps," said Dorothy, "if you untied him, he would go."

The boy laughed cheerfully and jumped out.

"Guess I'm half asleep yet," he said, untying the horse. "But Jim knows
his business all right--don't you, Jim?" patting the long nose of the
animal.

Then he got into the buggy again and took the reins, and the horse at
once backed away from the tree, turned slowly around, and began to trot
down the sandy road which was just visible in the dim light.

"Thought that train would never come," observed the boy. "I've waited at
that station for five hours."

"We had a lot of earthquakes," said Dorothy. "Didn't you feel the ground
shake?"

"Yes; but we're used to such things in California," he replied. "They
don't scare us much."

[Illustration: DOROTHY POKED THE BOY WITH HER PARASOL.]

"The conductor said it was the worst quake he ever knew."

"Did he? Then it must have happened while I was asleep," he said,
thoughtfully.

"How is Uncle Henry?" she enquired, after a pause during which the horse
continued to trot with long, regular strides.

"He's pretty well. He and Uncle Hugson have been having a fine visit."

"Is Mr. Hugson your uncle?" she asked.

"Yes. Uncle Bill Hugson married your Uncle Henry's wife's sister; so we
must be second cousins," said the boy, in an amused tone. "I work for
Uncle Bill on his ranch, and he pays me six dollars a month and my
board."

"Isn't that a great deal?" she asked, doubtfully.

"Why, it's a great deal for Uncle Hugson, but not for me. I'm a splendid
worker. I work as well as I sleep," he added, with a laugh.

"What is your name?" asked Dorothy, thinking she liked the boy's manner
and the cheery tone of his voice.

"Not a very pretty one," he answered, as if a little ashamed. "My whole
name is Zebediah; but folks just call me 'Zeb.' You've been to
Australia, haven't you?"

"Yes; with Uncle Henry," she answered. "We got to San Francisco a week
ago, and Uncle Henry went right on to Hugson's Ranch for a visit while I
stayed a few days in the city with some friends we had met."

"How long will you be with us?" he asked.

"Only a day. Tomorrow Uncle Henry and I must start back for Kansas.
We've been away for a long time, you know, and so we're anxious to get
home again."

The boy flicked the big, boney horse with his whip and looked
thoughtful. Then he started to say something to his little companion,
but before he could speak the buggy began to sway dangerously from side
to side and the earth seemed to rise up before them. Next minute there
was a roar and a sharp crash, and at her side Dorothy saw the ground
open in a wide crack and then come together again.

"Goodness!" she cried, grasping the iron rail of the seat. "What was
that?"

"That was an awful big quake," replied Zeb, with a white face. "It
almost got us that time, Dorothy."

The horse had stopped short, and stood firm as a rock. Zeb shook the
reins and urged him to go, but Jim was stubborn. Then the boy cracked
his whip and touched the animal's flanks with it, and after a low moan
of protest Jim stepped slowly along the road.

Neither the boy nor the girl spoke again for some minutes. There was a
breath of danger in the very air, and every few moments the earth would
shake violently. Jim's ears were standing erect upon his head and every
muscle of his big body was tense as he trotted toward home. He was not
going very fast, but on his flanks specks of foam began to appear and at
times he would tremble like a leaf.

The sky had grown darker again and the wind made queer sobbing sounds as
it swept over the valley.

Suddenly there was a rending, tearing sound, and the earth split into
another great crack just beneath the spot where the horse was standing.
With a wild neigh of terror the animal fell bodily into the pit, drawing
the buggy and its occupants after him.

Dorothy grabbed fast hold of the buggy top and the boy did the same. The
sudden rush into space confused them so that they could not think.

Blackness engulfed them on every side, and in breathless silence they
waited for the fall to end and crush them against jagged rocks or for
the earth to close in on them again and bury them forever in its
dreadful depths.

The horrible sensation of falling, the darkness and the terrifying
noises, proved more than Dorothy could endure and for a few moments the
little girl lost consciousness. Zeb, being a boy, did not faint, but he
was badly frightened, and clung to the buggy seat with a tight grip,
expecting every moment would be his last.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 2.

THE GLASS CITY


When Dorothy recovered her senses they were still falling, but not so
fast. The top of the buggy caught the air like a parachute or an
umbrella filled with wind, and held them back so that they floated
downward with a gentle motion that was not so very disagreeable to bear.
The worst thing was their terror of reaching the bottom of this great
crack in the earth, and the natural fear that sudden death was about to
overtake them at any moment. Crash after crash echoed far above their
heads, as the earth came together where it had split, and stones and
chunks of clay rattled around them on every side. These they could not
see, but they could feel them pelting the buggy top, and Jim screamed
almost like a human being when a stone overtook him and struck his
boney body. They did not really hurt the poor horse, because everything
was falling together; only the stones and rubbish fell faster than the
horse and buggy, which were held back by the pressure of the air, so
that the terrified animal was actually more frightened than he was
injured.

How long this state of things continued Dorothy could not even guess,
she was so greatly bewildered. But bye and bye, as she stared ahead into
the black chasm with a beating heart, she began to dimly see the form of
the horse Jim--his head up in the air, his ears erect and his long legs
sprawling in every direction as he tumbled through space. Also, turning
her head, she found that she could see the boy beside her, who had until
now remained as still and silent as she herself.

Dorothy sighed and commenced to breathe easier. She began to realize
that death was not in store for her, after all, but that she had merely
started upon another adventure, which promised to be just as queer and
unusual as were those she had before encountered.

With this thought in mind the girl took heart and leaned her head over
the side of the buggy to see where the strange light was coming from.
Far below her she found six great glowing balls suspended in the air.
The central and largest one was white, and reminded her of the sun.
Around it were arranged, like the five points of a star, the other five
brilliant balls; one being rose colored, one violet, one yellow, one
blue and one orange. This splendid group of colored suns sent rays
darting in every direction, and as the horse and buggy--with Dorothy and
Zeb--sank steadily downward and came nearer to the lights, the rays
began to take on all the delicate tintings of a rainbow, growing more
and more distinct every moment until all the space was brilliantly
illuminated.

Dorothy was too dazed to say much, but she watched one of Jim's big ears
turn to violet and the other to rose, and wondered that his tail should
be yellow and his body striped with blue and orange like the stripes of
a zebra. Then she looked at Zeb, whose face was blue and whose hair was
pink, and gave a little laugh that sounded a bit nervous.

"Isn't it funny?" she said.

The boy was startled and his eyes were big. Dorothy had a green streak
through the center of her face where the blue and yellow lights came
together, and her appearance seemed to add to his fright.

"I--I don't s-s-see any-thing funny--'bout it!" he stammered.

[Illustration: HORSE, BUGGY AND ALL FELL SLOWLY.]

Just then the buggy tipped slowly over upon its side, the body of the
horse tipping also. But they continued to fall, all together, and the
boy and girl had no difficulty in remaining upon the seat, just as they
were before. Then they turned bottom side up, and continued to roll
slowly over until they were right side up again. During this time Jim
struggled frantically, all his legs kicking the air; but on finding
himself in his former position the horse said, in a relieved tone of
voice:

"Well, that's better!"

Dorothy and Zeb looked at one another in wonder.

"Can your horse talk?" she asked.

"Never knew him to, before," replied the boy.

"Those were the first words I ever said," called out the horse, who had
overheard them, "and I can't explain why I happened to speak then. This
is a nice scrape you've got me into, isn't it?"

"As for that, we are in the same scrape ourselves," answered Dorothy,
cheerfully. "But never mind; something will happen pretty soon."

"Of course," growled the horse; "and then we shall be sorry it
happened."

Zeb gave a shiver. All this was so terrible and unreal that he could not
understand it at all, and so had good reason to be afraid.

Swiftly they drew near to the flaming colored suns, and passed close
beside them. The light was then so bright that it dazzled their eyes,
and they covered their faces with their hands to escape being blinded.
There was no heat in the colored suns, however, and after they had
passed below them the top of the buggy shut out many of the piercing
rays so that the boy and girl could open their eyes again.

"We've got to come to the bottom some time," remarked Zeb, with a deep
sigh. "We can't keep falling forever, you know."

"Of course not," said Dorothy. "We are somewhere in the middle of the
earth, and the chances are we'll reach the other side of it before long.
But it's a big hollow, isn't it?"

"Awful big!" answered the boy.

"We're coming to something now," announced the horse.

At this they both put their heads over the side of the buggy and looked
down. Yes; there was land below them; and not so very far away, either.
But they were floating very, very slowly--so slowly that it could no
longer be called a fall--and the children had ample time to take heart
and look about them.

They saw a landscape with mountains and plains, lakes and rivers, very
like those upon the earth's surface; but all the scene was splendidly
colored by the variegated lights from the six suns. Here and there were
groups of houses that seemed made of clear glass, because they sparkled
so brightly.

"I'm sure we are in no danger," said Dorothy, in a sober voice. "We are
falling so slowly that we can't be dashed to pieces when we land, and
this country that we are coming to seems quite pretty."

"We'll never get home again, though!" declared Zeb, with a groan.

"Oh, I'm not so sure of that," replied the girl. "But don't let us worry
over such things, Zeb; we can't help ourselves just now, you know, and
I've always been told it's foolish to borrow trouble."

The boy became silent, having no reply to so sensible a speech, and soon
both were fully occupied in staring at the strange scenes spread out
below them. They seemed to be falling right into the middle of a big
city which had many tall buildings with glass domes and sharp-pointed
spires. These spires were like great spear-points, and if they tumbled
upon one of them they were likely to suffer serious injury.

Jim the horse had seen these spires, also, and his ears stood straight
up with fear, while Dorothy and Zeb held their breaths in suspense. But
no; they floated gently down upon a broad, flat roof, and came to a stop
at last.

When Jim felt something firm under his feet the poor beast's legs
trembled so much that he could hardly stand; but Zeb at once leaped out
of the buggy to the roof, and he was so awkward and hasty that he kicked
over Dorothy's birdcage, which rolled out upon the roof so that the
bottom came off. At once a pink kitten crept out of the upset cage, sat
down upon the glass roof, and yawned and blinked its round eyes.

"Oh," said Dorothy. "There's Eureka."

"First time I ever saw a pink cat," said Zeb.

"Eureka isn't pink; she's white. It's this queer light that gives her
that color."

"Where's my milk?" asked the kitten, looking up into Dorothy's face.
"I'm 'most starved to death."

"Oh, Eureka! Can you talk?"

"Talk! Am I talking? Good gracious, I believe I am. Isn't it funny?"
asked the kitten.

"It's all wrong," said Zeb, gravely. "Animals ought not to talk. But
even old Jim has been saying things since we had our accident."

"I can't see that it's wrong," remarked Jim, in his gruff tones. "At
least, it isn't as wrong as some other things. What's going to become of
us now?"

"I don't know," answered the boy, looking around him curiously.

The houses of the city were all made of glass, so clear and transparent
that one could look through the walls as easily as though a window.
Dorothy saw, underneath the roof on which she stood, several rooms used
for rest chambers, and even thought she could make out a number of queer
forms huddled into the corners of these rooms.

The roof beside them had a great hole smashed through it, and pieces of
glass were lying scattered in every direction. A near by steeple had
been broken off short and the fragments lay heaped beside it. Other
buildings were cracked in places or had corners chipped off from them;
but they must have been very beautiful before these accidents had
happened to mar their perfection. The rainbow tints from the colored
suns fell upon the glass city softly and gave to the buildings many
delicate, shifting hues which were very pretty to see.

But not a sound had broken the stillness since the strangers had
arrived, except that of their own voices. They began to wonder if there
were no people to inhabit this magnificent city of the inner world.

Suddenly a man appeared through a hole in the roof next to the one they
were on and stepped into plain view. He was not a very large man, but
was well formed and had a beautiful face--calm and serene as the face of
a fine portrait. His clothing fitted his form snugly and was gorgeously
colored in brilliant shades of green, which varied as the sunbeams
touched them but was not wholly influenced by the solar rays.

The man had taken a step or two across the glass roof before he noticed
the presence of the strangers; but then he stopped abruptly. There was
no expression of either fear or surprise upon his tranquil face, yet he
must have been both astonished and afraid; for after his eyes had rested
upon the ungainly form of the horse for a moment he walked rapidly to
the furthest edge of the roof, his head turned back over his shoulder to
gaze at the strange animal.

"Look out!" cried Dorothy, who noticed that the beautiful man did not
look where he was going; "be careful, or you'll fall off!"

But he paid no attention to her warning. He reached the edge of the tall
roof, stepped one foot out into the air, and walked into space as calmly
as if he were on firm ground.

The girl, greatly astonished, ran to lean over the edge of the roof, and
saw the man walking rapidly through the air toward the ground. Soon he
reached the street and disappeared through a glass doorway into one of
the glass buildings.

"How strange!" she exclaimed, drawing a long breath.

"Yes; but it's lots of fun, if it _is_ strange," remarked the small
voice of the kitten, and Dorothy turned to find her pet walking in the
air a foot or so away from the edge of the roof.

"Come back, Eureka!" she called, in distress, "you'll certainly be
killed."

"I have nine lives," said the kitten, purring softly as it walked around
in a circle and then came back to the roof; "but I can't lose even one
of them by falling in this country, because I really couldn't manage to
fall if I wanted to."

"Does the air bear up your weight?" asked the girl.

"Of course; can't you see?" and again the kitten wandered into the air
and back to the edge of the roof.

"It's wonderful!" said Dorothy.

"Suppose we let Eureka go down to the street and get some one to help
us," suggested Zeb, who had been even more amazed than Dorothy at these
strange happenings.

"Perhaps we can walk on the air ourselves," replied the girl.

Zeb drew back with a shiver.

"I wouldn't dare try," he said.

"May be Jim will go," continued Dorothy, looking at the horse.

"And may be he won't!" answered Jim. "I've tumbled through the air long
enough to make me contented on this roof."

"But we didn't tumble to the roof," said the girl; "by the time we
reached here we were floating very slowly, and I'm almost sure we could
float down to the street without getting hurt. Eureka walks on the air
all right."

"Eureka weighs only about half a pound," replied the horse, in a
scornful tone, "while I weigh about half a ton."

"You don't weigh as much as you ought to, Jim," remarked the girl,
shaking her head as she looked at the animal. "You're dreadfully
skinny."

"Oh, well; I'm old," said the horse, hanging his head despondently, "and
I've had lots of trouble in my day, little one. For a good many years I
drew a public cab in Chicago, and that's enough to make anyone skinny."

"He eats enough to get fat, I'm sure," said the boy, gravely.

"Do I? Can you remember any breakfast that I've had today?" growled Jim,
as if he resented Zeb's speech.

"None of us has had breakfast," said the boy; "and in a time of danger
like this it's foolish to talk about eating."

"Nothing is more dangerous than being without food," declared the horse,
with a sniff at the rebuke of his young master; "and just at present no
one can tell whether there are any oats in this queer country or not. If
there are, they are liable to be glass oats!"

[Illustration: "COME ON, JIM! IT'S ALL RIGHT."]

"Oh, no!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I can see plenty of nice gardens and
fields down below us, at the edge of this city. But I wish we could find
a way to get to the ground."

"Why don't you walk down?" asked Eureka. "I'm as hungry as the horse is,
and I want my milk."

"Will you try it, Zeb" asked the girl, turning to her companion.

Zeb hesitated. He was still pale and frightened, for this dreadful
adventure had upset him and made him nervous and worried. But he did not
wish the little girl to think him a coward, so he advanced slowly to the
edge of the roof.

Dorothy stretched out a hand to him and Zeb put one foot out and let it
rest in the air a little over the edge of the roof. It seemed firm
enough to walk upon, so he took courage and put out the other foot.
Dorothy kept hold of his hand and followed him, and soon they were both
walking through the air, with the kitten frisking beside them.

"Come on, Jim!" called the boy. "It's all right."

Jim had crept to the edge of the roof to look over, and being a sensible
horse and quite experienced, he made up his mind that he could go where
the others did. So, with a snort and a neigh and a whisk of his short
tail he trotted off the roof into the air and at once began floating
downward to the street. His great weight made him fall faster than the
children walked, and he passed them on the way down; but when he came to
the glass pavement he alighted upon it so softly that he was not even
jarred.

"Well, well!" said Dorothy, drawing a long breath, "What a strange
country this is."

People began to come out of the glass doors to look at the new arrivals,
and pretty soon quite a crowd had assembled. There were men and women,
but no children at all, and the folks were all beautifully formed and
attractively dressed and had wonderfully handsome faces. There was not
an ugly person in all the throng, yet Dorothy was not especially pleased
by the appearance of these people because their features had no more
expression than the faces of dolls. They did not smile nor did they
frown, or show either fear or surprise or curiosity or friendliness.
They simply stared at the strangers, paying most attention to Jim and
Eureka, for they had never before seen either a horse or a cat and the
children bore an outward resemblance to themselves.

Pretty soon a man joined the group who wore a glistening star in the
dark hair just over his forehead. He seemed to be a person of authority,
for the others pressed back to give him room. After turning his composed
eyes first upon the animals and then upon the children he said to Zeb,
who was a little taller than Dorothy:

"Tell me, intruder, was it you who caused the Rain of Stones?"

For a moment the boy did not know what he meant by this question. Then,
remembering the stones that had fallen with them and passed them long
before they had reached this place, he answered:

"No, sir; we didn't cause anything. It was the earthquake."

The man with the star stood for a time quietly thinking over this
speech. Then he asked:

"What is an earthquake?"

"I don't know," said Zeb, who was still confused. But Dorothy, seeing
his perplexity, answered:

"It's a shaking of the earth. In this quake a big crack opened and we
fell through--horse and buggy, and all--and the stones got loose and
came down with us."

The man with the star regarded her with his calm, expressionless eyes.

"The Rain of Stones has done much damage to our city," he said; "and we
shall hold you responsible for it unless you can prove your innocence."

"How can we do that?" asked the girl.

"That I am not prepared to say. It is your affair, not mine. You must
go to the House of the Sorcerer, who will soon discover the truth."

"Where is the House of the Sorcerer?" the girl enquired.

"I will lead you to it. Come!"

He turned and walked down the street, and after a moment's hesitation
Dorothy caught Eureka in her arms and climbed into the buggy. The boy
took his seat beside her and said: "Gid-dap, Jim."

As the horse ambled along, drawing the buggy, the people of the glass
city made way for them and formed a procession in their rear. Slowly
they moved down one street and up another, turning first this way and
then that, until they came to an open square in the center of which was
a big glass palace having a central dome and four tall spires on each
corner.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 3.

THE ARRIVAL OF THE WIZARD


The doorway of the glass palace was quite big enough for the horse and
buggy to enter, so Zeb drove straight through it and the children found
themselves in a lofty hall that was very beautiful. The people at once
followed and formed a circle around the sides of the spacious room,
leaving the horse and buggy and the man with the star to occupy the
center of the hall.

"Come to us, oh, Gwig!" called the man, in a loud voice.

Instantly a cloud of smoke appeared and rolled over the floor; then it
slowly spread and ascended into the dome, disclosing a strange personage
seated upon a glass throne just before Jim's nose. He was formed just as
were the other inhabitants of this land and his clothing only differed
from theirs in being bright yellow. But he had no hair at all, and all
over his bald head and face and upon the backs of his hands grew sharp
thorns like those found on the branches of rose-bushes. There was even a
thorn upon the tip of his nose and he looked so funny that Dorothy
laughed when she saw him.

The Sorcerer, hearing the laugh, looked toward the little girl with
cold, cruel eyes, and his glance made her grow sober in an instant.

"Why have you dared to intrude your unwelcome persons into the secluded
Land of the Mangaboos?" he asked, sternly.

"'Cause we couldn't help it," said Dorothy.

"Why did you wickedly and viciously send the Rain of Stones to crack and
break our houses?" he continued.

"We didn't," declared the girl.

"Prove it!" cried the Sorcerer.

"We don't have to prove it," answered Dorothy, indignantly. "If you had
any sense at all you'd known it was the earthquake."

"We only know that yesterday came a Rain of Stones upon us, which did
much damage and injured some of our people. Today came another Rain of
Stones, and soon after it you appeared among us."

"By the way," said the man with the star, looking steadily at the
Sorcerer, "you told us yesterday that there would not be a second Rain
of Stones. Yet one has just occurred that was even worse than the first.
What is your sorcery good for if it cannot tell us the truth?"

"My sorcery does tell the truth!" declared the thorn-covered man. "I
said there would be but one Rain of Stones. This second one was a Rain
of People-and-Horse-and-Buggy. And some stones came with them."

"Will there be any more Rains?" asked the man with the star.

"No, my Prince."

"Neither stones nor people?"

"No, my Prince."

"Are you sure?"

"Quite sure, my Prince. My sorcery tells me so."

Just then a man came running into the hall and addressed the Prince
after making a low bow.

"More wonders in the air, my Lord," said he.

Immediately the Prince and all of his people flocked out of the hall
into the street, that they might see what was about to happen. Dorothy
and Zeb jumped out of the buggy and ran after them, but the Sorcerer
remained calmly in his throne.

Far up in the air was an object that looked like a balloon. It was not
so high as the glowing star of the six colored suns, but was descending
slowly through the air--so slowly that at first it scarcely seemed to
move.

The throng stood still and waited. It was all they could do, for to go
away and leave that strange sight was impossible; nor could they hurry
its fall in any way. The earth children were not noticed, being so near
the average size of the Mangaboos, and the horse had remained in the
House of the Sorcerer, with Eureka curled up asleep on the seat of the
buggy.

Gradually the balloon grew bigger, which was proof that it was settling
down upon the Land of the Mangaboos. Dorothy was surprised to find how
patient the people were, for her own little heart was beating rapidly
with excitement. A balloon meant to her some other arrival from the
surface of the earth, and she hoped it would be some one able to assist
her and Zeb out of their difficulties.

In an hour the balloon had come near enough for her to see a basket
suspended below it; in two hours she could see a head looking over the
side of the basket; in three hours the big balloon settled slowly into
the great square in which they stood and came to rest on the glass
pavement.

Then a little man jumped out of the basket, took off his tall hat, and
bowed very gracefully to the crowd of Mangaboos around him. He was quite
an old little man, and his head was long and entirely bald.

"Why," cried Dorothy, in amazement, "it's Oz!"

The little man looked toward her and seemed as much surprised as she
was. But he smiled and bowed as he answered:

"Yes, my dear; I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Eh? And you are little
Dorothy, from Kansas. I remember you very well."

"Who did you say it was?" whispered Zeb to the girl.

"It's the wonderful Wizard of Oz. Haven't you heard of him?"

Just then the man with the star came and stood before the Wizard.

"Sir," said he, "why are you here, in the Land of the Mangaboos?"

"Didn't know what land it was, my son," returned the other, with a
pleasant smile; "and, to be honest, I didn't mean to visit you when I
started out. I live on top of the earth, your honor, which is far better
than living inside it; but yesterday I went up in a balloon, and when I
came down I fell into a big crack in the earth, caused by an earthquake.
I had let so much gas out of my balloon that I could not rise again,
and in a few minutes the earth closed over my head. So I continued to
descend until I reached this place, and if you will show me a way to get
out of it, I'll go with pleasure. Sorry to have troubled you; but it
couldn't be helped."

The Prince had listened with attention. Said he:

"This child, who is from the crust of the earth, like yourself, called
you a Wizard. Is not a Wizard something like a Sorcerer?"

"It's better," replied Oz, promptly. "One Wizard is worth three
Sorcerers."

"Ah, you shall prove that," said the Prince. "We Mangaboos have, at the
present time, one of the most wonderful Sorcerers that ever was picked
from a bush; but he sometimes makes mistakes. Do you ever make
mistakes?"

"Never!" declared the Wizard, boldly.

"Oh, Oz!" said Dorothy; "you made a lot of mistakes when you were in the
marvelous Land of Oz."

"Nonsense!" said the little man, turning red--although just then a ray
of violet sunlight was on his round face.

"Come with me," said the Prince to him. "I wish you to meet our
Sorcerer."

The Wizard did not like this invitation, but he could not refuse to
accept it. So he followed the Prince into the great domed hall, and
Dorothy and Zeb came after them, while the throng of people trooped in
also.

There sat the thorny Sorcerer in his chair of state, and when the Wizard
saw him he began to laugh, uttering comical little chuckles.

"What an absurd creature!" he exclaimed.

"He may look absurd," said the Prince, in his quiet voice; "but he is an
excellent Sorcerer. The only fault I find with him is that he is so
often wrong."

"I am never wrong," answered the Sorcerer.

"Only a short time ago you told me there would be no more Rain of Stones
or of People," said the Prince.

"Well, what then?"

"Here is another person descended from the air to prove you were wrong."

"One person cannot be called 'people,'" said the Sorcerer. "If two
should come out of the sky you might with justice say I was wrong; but
unless more than this one appears I will hold that I was right."

"Very clever," said the Wizard, nodding his head as if pleased. "I am
delighted to find humbugs inside the earth, just the same as on top of
it. Were you ever with a circus, brother?"

"No," said the Sorcerer.

"You ought to join one," declared the little man seriously. "I belong to
Bailum & Barney's Great Consolidated Shows--three rings in one tent and
a menagerie on the side. It's a fine aggregation, I assure you."

"What do you do?" asked the Sorcerer.

"I go up in a balloon, usually, to draw the crowds to the circus. But
I've just had the bad luck to come out of the sky, skip the solid earth,
and land lower down than I intended. But never mind. It isn't everybody
who gets a chance to see your Land of the Gabazoos."

"Mangaboos," said the Sorcerer, correcting him. "If you are a Wizard you
ought to be able to call people by their right names."

"Oh, I'm a Wizard; you may be sure of that. Just as good a Wizard as you
are a Sorcerer."

"That remains to be seen," said the other.

"If you are able to prove that you are better," said the Prince to the
little man, "I will make you the Chief Wizard of this domain.
Otherwise--"

"What will happen otherwise?" asked the Wizard.

"I will stop you from living, and forbid you to be planted," returned
the Prince.

"That does not sound especially pleasant," said the little man, looking
at the one with the star uneasily. "But never mind. I'll beat Old
Prickly, all right."

"My name is Gwig," said the Sorcerer, turning his heartless, cruel eyes
upon his rival. "Let me see you equal the sorcery I am about to
perform."

He waved a thorny hand and at once the tinkling of bells was heard,
playing sweet music. Yet, look where she would, Dorothy could discover
no bells at all in the great glass hall.

The Mangaboo people listened, but showed no great interest. It was one
of the things Gwig usually did to prove he was a sorcerer.

Now was the Wizard's turn, so he smiled upon the assemblage and asked:

"Will somebody kindly loan me a hat?"

No one did, because the Mangaboos did not wear hats, and Zeb had lost
his, somehow, in his flight through the air.

"Ahem!" said the Wizard, "will somebody please loan me a handkerchief?"

But they had no handkerchiefs, either.

"Very good," remarked the Wizard. "I'll use my own hat, if you please.
Now, good people, observe me carefully. You see, there is nothing up my
sleeve and nothing concealed about my person. Also, my hat is quite
empty." He took off his hat and held it upside down, shaking it
briskly.

"Let me see it," said the Sorcerer.

He took the hat and examined it carefully, returning it afterward to the
Wizard.

"Now," said the little man, "I will create something out of nothing."

He placed the hat upon the glass floor, made a pass with his hand, and
then removed the hat, displaying a little white piglet no bigger than a
mouse, which began to run around here and there and to grunt and squeal
in a tiny, shrill voice.

The people watched it intently, for they had never seen a pig before,
big or little. The Wizard reached out, caught the wee creature in his
hand, and holding its head between one thumb and finger and its tail
between the other thumb and finger he pulled it apart, each of the two
parts becoming a whole and separate piglet in an instant.

He placed one upon the floor, so that it could run around, and pulled
apart the other, making three piglets in all; and then one of these was
pulled apart, making four piglets. The Wizard continued this surprising
performance until nine tiny piglets were running about at his feet, all
squealing and grunting in a very comical way.

"Now," said the Wizard of Oz, "having created something from nothing, I
will make something nothing again."

With this he caught up two of the piglets and pushed them together, so
that the two were one. Then he caught up another piglet and pushed it
into the first, where it disappeared. And so, one by one, the nine tiny
piglets were pushed together until but a single one of the creatures
remained. This the Wizard placed underneath his hat and made a mystic
sign above it. When he removed his hat the last piglet had disappeared
entirely.

The little man gave a bow to the silent throng that had watched him, and
then the Prince said, in his cold, calm voice:

"You are indeed a wonderful Wizard, and your powers are greater than
those of my Sorcerer."

"He will not be a wonderful Wizard long," remarked Gwig.

"Why not?" enquired the Wizard.

"Because I am going to stop your breath," was the reply. "I perceive
that you are curiously constructed, and that if you cannot breathe you
cannot keep alive."

The little man looked troubled.

"How long will it take you to stop my breath?" he asked.

"About five minutes. I'm going to begin now. Watch me carefully."

He began making queer signs and passes toward the Wizard; but the little
man did not watch him long. Instead, he drew a leathern case from his
pocket and took from it several sharp knives, which he joined together,
one after another, until they made a long sword. By the time he had
attached a handle to this sword he was having much trouble to breathe,
as the charm of the Sorcerer was beginning to take effect.

So the Wizard lost no more time, but leaping forward he raised the sharp
sword, whirled it once or twice around his head, and then gave a mighty
stroke that cut the body of the Sorcerer exactly in two.

Dorothy screamed and expected to see a terrible sight; but as the two
halves of the Sorcerer fell apart on the floor she saw that he had no
bones or blood inside of him at all, and that the place where he was cut
looked much like a sliced turnip or potato.

"Why, he's vegetable!" cried the Wizard, astonished.

"Of course," said the Prince. "We are all vegetable, in this country.
Are you not vegetable, also?"

"No," answered the Wizard. "People on top of the earth are all meat.
Will your Sorcerer die?"

"Certainly, sir. He is really dead now, and will wither very quickly. So
we must plant him at once, that other Sorcerers may grow upon his bush,"
continued the Prince.

"What do you mean by that?" asked the little Wizard, greatly puzzled.

"If you will accompany me to our public gardens," replied the Prince, "I
will explain to you much better than I can here the mysteries of our
Vegetable Kingdom."

[Illustration: THE WIZARD CUT THE SORCERER EXACTLY IN TWO.]




CHAPTER 4.

THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM


After the Wizard had wiped the dampness from his sword and taken it
apart and put the pieces into their leathern case again, the man with
the star ordered some of his people to carry the two halves of the
Sorcerer to the public gardens.

Jim pricked up his ears when he heard they were going to the gardens,
and wanted to join the party, thinking he might find something proper to
eat; so Zeb put down the top of the buggy and invited the Wizard to ride
with them. The seat was amply wide enough for the little man and the two
children, and when Jim started to leave the hall the kitten jumped upon
his back and sat there quite contentedly.

So the procession moved through the streets, the bearers of the Sorcerer
first, the Prince next, then Jim drawing the buggy with the strangers
inside of it, and last the crowd of vegetable people who had no hearts
and could neither smile nor frown.

The glass city had several fine streets, for a good many people lived
there; but when the procession had passed through these it came upon a
broad plain covered with gardens and watered by many pretty brooks that
flowed through it. There were paths through these gardens, and over some
of the brooks were ornamental glass bridges.

Dorothy and Zeb now got out of the buggy and walked beside the Prince,
so that they might see and examine the flowers and plants better.

"Who built these lovely bridges?" asked the little girl.

"No one built them," answered the man with the star. "They grow."

"That's queer," said she. "Did the glass houses in your city grow, too?"

"Of course," he replied. "But it took a good many years for them to grow
as large and fine as they are now. That is why we are so angry when a
Rain of Stones comes to break our towers and crack our roofs."

"Can't you mend them?" she enquired.

"No; but they will grow together again, in time, and we must wait until
they do."

They first passed through many beautiful gardens of flowers, which grew
nearest the city; but Dorothy could hardly tell what kind of flowers
they were, because the colors were constantly changing under the
shifting lights of the six suns. A flower would be pink one second,
white the next, then blue or yellow; and it was the same way when they
came to the plants, which had broad leaves and grew close to the ground.

When they passed over a field of grass Jim immediately stretched down
his head and began to nibble.

"A nice country this is," he grumbled, "where a respectable horse has to
eat pink grass!"

"It's violet," said the Wizard, who was in the buggy.

"Now it's blue," complained the horse. "As a matter of fact, I'm eating
rainbow grass."

"How does it taste?" asked the Wizard.

"Not bad at all," said Jim. "If they give me plenty of it I'll not
complain about its color."

By this time the party had reached a freshly plowed field, and the
Prince said to Dorothy:

"This is our planting-ground."

Several Mangaboos came forward with glass spades and dug a hole in the
ground. Then they put the two halves of the Sorcerer into it and covered
him up. After that other people brought water from a brook and sprinkled
the earth.

"He will sprout very soon," said the Prince, "and grow into a large
bush, from which we shall in time be able to pick several very good
sorcerers."

"Do all your people grow on bushes?" asked the boy.

"Certainly," was the reply. "Do not all people grow upon bushes where
you came from, on the outside of the earth."

"Not that I ever heard of."

"How strange! But if you will come with me to one of our folk gardens I
will show you the way we grow in the Land of the Mangaboos."

It appeared that these odd people, while they were able to walk through
the air with ease, usually moved upon the ground in the ordinary way.
There were no stairs in their houses, because they did not need them,
but on a level surface they generally walked just as we do.

The little party of strangers now followed the Prince across a few more
of the glass bridges and along several paths until they came to a garden
enclosed by a high hedge. Jim had refused to leave the field of grass,
where he was engaged in busily eating; so the Wizard got out of the
buggy and joined Zeb and Dorothy, and the kitten followed demurely at
their heels.

Inside the hedge they came upon row after row of large and handsome
plants with broad leaves gracefully curving until their points nearly
reached the ground. In the center of each plant grew a daintily dressed
Mangaboo, for the clothing of all these creatures grew upon them and was
attached to their bodies.

The growing Mangaboos were of all sizes, from the blossom that had just
turned into a wee baby to the full-grown and almost ripe man or woman.
On some of the bushes might be seen a bud, a blossom, a baby, a
half-grown person and a ripe one; but even those ready to pluck were
motionless and silent, as if devoid of life. This sight explained to
Dorothy why she had seen no children among the Mangaboos, a thing she
had until now been unable to account for.

"Our people do not acquire their real life until they leave their
bushes," said the Prince. "You will notice they are all attached to the
plants by the soles of their feet, and when they are quite ripe they are
easily separated from the stems and at once attain the powers of motion
and speech. So while they grow they cannot be said to really live, and
they must be picked before they can become good citizens."

"How long do you live, after you are picked?" asked Dorothy.

"That depends upon the care we take of ourselves," he replied. "If we
keep cool and moist, and meet with no accidents, we often live for five
years. I've been picked over six years, but our family is known to be
especially long lived."

"Do you eat?" asked the boy.

"Eat! No, indeed. We are quite solid inside our bodies, and have no need
to eat, any more than does a potato."

"But the potatoes sometimes sprout," said Zeb.

"And sometimes we do," answered the Prince; "but that is considered a
great misfortune, for then we must be planted at once."

"Where did you grow?" asked the Wizard.

"I will show you," was the reply. "Step this way, please."

He led them within another but smaller circle of hedge, where grew one
large and beautiful bush.

"This," said he, "is the Royal Bush of the Mangaboos. All of our Princes
and Rulers have grown upon this one bush from time immemorial."

They stood before it in silent admiration. On the central stalk stood
poised the figure of a girl so exquisitely formed and colored and so
lovely in the expression of her delicate features that Dorothy thought
she had never seen so sweet and adorable a creature in all her life.
The maiden's gown was soft as satin and fell about her in ample folds,
while dainty lace-like traceries trimmed the bodice and sleeves. Her
flesh was fine and smooth as polished ivory, and her poise expressed
both dignity and grace.

"Who is this?" asked the Wizard, curiously.

The Prince had been staring hard at the girl on the bush. Now he
answered, with a touch of uneasiness in his cold tones:

"She is the Ruler destined to be my successor, for she is a Royal
Princess. When she becomes fully ripe I must abandon the sovereignty of
the Mangaboos to her."

"Isn't she ripe now?" asked Dorothy.

He hesitated.

"Not quite," said he, finally. "It will be several days before she needs
to be picked, or at least that is my judgment. I am in no hurry to
resign my office and be planted, you may be sure."

"Probably not," declared the Wizard, nodding.

"This is one of the most unpleasant things about our vegetable lives,"
continued the Prince, with a sigh, "that while we are in our full prime
we must give way to another, and be covered up in the ground to sprout
and grow and give birth to other people."

"I'm sure the Princess is ready to be picked," asserted Dorothy, gazing
hard at the beautiful girl on the bush. "She's as perfect as she can
be."

"Never mind," answered the Prince, hastily, "she will be all right for a
few days longer, and it is best for me to rule until I can dispose of
you strangers, who have come to our land uninvited and must be attended
to at once."

"What are you going to do with us?" asked Zeb.

"That is a matter I have not quite decided upon," was the reply. "I
think I shall keep this Wizard until a new Sorcerer is ready to pick,
for he seems quite skillful and may be of use to us. But the rest of you
must be destroyed in some way, and you cannot be planted, because I do
not wish horses and cats and meat people growing all over our country."

"You needn't worry," said Dorothy. "We wouldn't grow under ground, I'm
sure."

"But why destroy my friends?" asked the little Wizard. "Why not let them
live?"

"They do not belong here," returned the Prince. "They have no right to
be inside the earth at all."

"We didn't ask to come down here; we fell," said Dorothy.

"That is no excuse," declared the Prince, coldly.

The children looked at each other in perplexity, and the Wizard sighed.
Eureka rubbed her paw on her face and said in her soft, purring voice:

"He won't need to destroy _me_, for if I don't get something to eat
pretty soon I shall starve to death, and so save him the trouble."

"If he planted you, he might grow some cat-tails," suggested the Wizard.

"Oh, Eureka! perhaps we can find you some milk-weeds to eat," said the
boy.

"Phoo!" snarled the kitten; "I wouldn't touch the nasty things!"

"You don't need milk, Eureka," remarked Dorothy; "you are big enough now
to eat any kind of food."

"If I can get it," added Eureka.

"I'm hungry myself," said Zeb. "But I noticed some strawberries growing
in one of the gardens, and some melons in another place. These people
don't eat such things, so perhaps on our way back they will let us get
them."

"Never mind your hunger," interrupted the Prince. "I shall order you
destroyed in a few minutes, so you will have no need to ruin our pretty
melon vines and berry bushes. Follow me, please, to meet your doom."




CHAPTER 5.

DOROTHY PICKS THE PRINCESS


The words of the cold and moist vegetable Prince were not very
comforting, and as he spoke them he turned away and left the enclosure.
The children, feeling sad and despondent, were about to follow him when
the Wizard touched Dorothy softly on her shoulder.

"Wait!" he whispered.

"What for?" asked the girl.

"Suppose we pick the Royal Princess," said the Wizard. "I'm quite sure
she's ripe, and as soon as she comes to life she will be the Ruler, and
may treat us better than that heartless Prince intends to."

"All right!" exclaimed Dorothy, eagerly. "Let's pick her while we have
the chance, before the man with the star comes back."

So together they leaned over the great bush and each of them seized one
hand of the lovely Princess.

"Pull!" cried Dorothy, and as they did so the royal lady leaned toward
them and the stems snapped and separated from her feet. She was not at
all heavy, so the Wizard and Dorothy managed to lift her gently to the
ground.

The beautiful creature passed her hands over her eyes an instant, tucked
in a stray lock of hair that had become disarranged, and after a look
around the garden made those present a gracious bow and said, in a sweet
but even toned voice:

"I thank you very much."

"We salute your Royal Highness!" cried the Wizard, kneeling and kissing
her hand.

Just then the voice of the Prince was heard calling upon them to hasten,
and a moment later he returned to the enclosure, followed by a number of
his people.

Instantly the Princess turned and faced him, and when he saw that she
was picked the Prince stood still and began to tremble.

"Sir," said the Royal Lady, with much dignity, "you have wronged me
greatly, and would have wronged me still more had not these strangers
come to my rescue. I have been ready for picking all the past week, but
because you were selfish and desired to continue your unlawful rule,
you left me to stand silent upon my bush."

"I did not know that you were ripe," answered the Prince, in a low
voice.

"Give me the Star of Royalty!" she commanded.

Slowly he took the shining star from his own brow and placed it upon
that of the Princess. Then all the people bowed low to her, and the
Prince turned and walked away alone. What became of him afterward our
friends never knew.

The people of Mangaboo now formed themselves into a procession and
marched toward the glass city to escort their new ruler to her palace
and to perform those ceremonies proper to the occasion. But while the
people in the procession walked upon the ground the Princess walked in
the air just above their heads, to show that she was a superior being
and more exalted than her subjects.

No one now seemed to pay any attention to the strangers, so Dorothy and
Zeb and the Wizard let the train pass on and then wandered by themselves
into the vegetable gardens. They did not bother to cross the bridges
over the brooks, but when they came to a stream they stepped high and
walked in the air to the other side. This was a very interesting
experience to them, and Dorothy said:

"I wonder why it is that we can walk so easily in the air."

"Perhaps," answered the Wizard, "it is because we are close to the
center of the earth, where the attraction of gravitation is very slight.
But I've noticed that many queer things happen in fairy countries."

"Is this a fairy country?" asked the boy.

"Of course it is," returned Dorothy, promptly. "Only a fairy country
could have veg'table people; and only in a fairy country could Eureka
and Jim talk as we do."

"That's true," said Zeb, thoughtfully.

In the vegetable gardens they found the strawberries and melons, and
several other unknown but delicious fruits, of which they ate heartily.
But the kitten bothered them constantly by demanding milk or meat, and
called the Wizard names because he could not bring her a dish of milk by
means of his magical arts.

As they sat upon the grass watching Jim, who was still busily eating,
Eureka said:

"I don't believe you are a Wizard at all!"

"No," answered the little man, "you are quite right. In the strict sense
of the word I am not a Wizard, but only a humbug."

"The Wizard of Oz has always been a humbug," agreed Dorothy. "I've known
him for a long time."

"If that is so," said the boy, "how could he do that wonderful trick
with the nine tiny piglets?"

"Don't know," said Dorothy, "but it must have been humbug."

"Very true," declared the Wizard, nodding at her. "It was necessary to
deceive that ugly Sorcerer and the Prince, as well as their stupid
people; but I don't mind telling you, who are my friends, that the thing
was only a trick."

"But I saw the little pigs with my own eyes!" exclaimed Zeb.

"So did I," purred the kitten.

"To be sure," answered the Wizard. "You saw them because they were
there. They are in my inside pocket now. But the pulling of them apart
and pushing them together again was only a sleight-of-hand trick."

"Let's see the pigs," said Eureka, eagerly.

The little man felt carefully in his pocket and pulled out the tiny
piglets, setting them upon the grass one by one, where they ran around
and nibbled the tender blades.

"They're hungry, too," he said.

"Oh, what cunning things!" cried Dorothy, catching up one and petting
it.

"Be careful!" said the piglet, with a squeal, "you're squeezing me!"

"Dear me!" murmured the Wizard, looking at his pets in astonishment.
"They can actually talk!"

"May I eat one of them?" asked the kitten, in a pleading voice. "I'm
awfully hungry."

"Why, Eureka," said Dorothy, reproachfully, "what a cruel question! It
would be dreadful to eat these dear little things."

"I should say so!" grunted another of the piglets, looking uneasily at
the kitten; "cats are cruel things."

"I'm not cruel," replied the kitten, yawning. "I'm just hungry."

"You cannot eat my piglets, even if you are starving," declared the
little man, in a stern voice. "They are the only things I have to prove
I'm a wizard."

"How did they happen to be so little?" asked Dorothy. "I never saw such
small pigs before."

"They are from the Island of Teenty-Weent," said the Wizard, "where
everything is small because it's a small island. A sailor brought them
to Los Angeles and I gave him nine tickets to the circus for them."

"But what am I going to eat?" wailed the kitten, sitting in front of
Dorothy and looking pleadingly into her face. "There are no cows here
to give milk; or any mice, or even grasshoppers. And if I can't eat the
piglets you may as well plant me at once and raise catsup."

"I have an idea," said the Wizard, "that there are fishes in these
brooks. Do you like fish?"

"Fish!" cried the kitten. "Do I like fish? Why, they're better than
piglets--or even milk!"

"Then I'll try to catch you some," said he.

"But won't they be veg'table, like everything else here?" asked the
kitten.

"I think not. Fishes are not animals, and they are as cold and moist as
the vegetables themselves. There is no reason, that I can see, why they
may not exist in the waters of this strange country."

Then the Wizard bent a pin for a hook and took a long piece of string
from his pocket for a fish-line. The only bait he could find was a
bright red blossom from a flower; but he knew fishes are easy to fool if
anything bright attracts their attention, so he decided to try the
blossom. Having thrown the end of his line in the water of a nearby
brook he soon felt a sharp tug that told him a fish had bitten and was
caught on the bent pin; so the little man drew in the string and, sure
enough, the fish came with it and was landed safely on the shore,
where it began to flop around in great excitement.

[Illustration: IN THE GARDEN OF THE MANGABOOS.]

The fish was fat and round, and its scales glistened like beautifully
cut jewels set close together; but there was no time to examine it
closely, for Eureka made a jump and caught it between her claws, and in
a few moments it had entirely disappeared.

"Oh, Eureka!" cried Dorothy, "did you eat the bones?"

"If it had any bones, I ate them," replied the kitten, composedly, as it
washed its face after the meal. "But I don't think that fish had any
bones, because I didn't feel them scratch my throat."

"You were very greedy," said the girl.

"I was very hungry," replied the kitten.

The little pigs had stood huddled in a group, watching this scene with
frightened eyes.

"Cats are dreadful creatures!" said one of them.

"I'm glad we are not fishes!" said another.

"Don't worry," Dorothy murmured, soothingly, "I'll not let the kitten
hurt you."

Then she happened to remember that in a corner of her suit-case were one
or two crackers that were left over from her luncheon on the train, and
she went to the buggy and brought them. Eureka stuck up her nose at such
food, but the tiny piglets squealed delightedly at the sight of the
crackers and ate them up in a jiffy.

"Now let us go back to the city," suggested the Wizard. "That is, if Jim
has had enough of the pink grass."

The cab-horse, who was browsing near, lifted his head with a sigh.

"I've tried to eat a lot while I had the chance," said he, "for it's
likely to be a long while between meals in this strange country. But I'm
ready to go, now, at any time you wish."

So, after the Wizard had put the piglets back into his inside pocket,
where they cuddled up and went to sleep, the three climbed into the
buggy and Jim started back to the town.

"Where shall we stay?" asked the girl.

"I think I shall take possession of the House of the Sorcerer," replied
the Wizard; "for the Prince said in the presence of his people that he
would keep me until they picked another Sorcerer, and the new Princess
won't know but that we belong there."

They agreed to this plan, and when they reached the great square Jim
drew the buggy into the big door of the domed hall.

"It doesn't look very homelike," said Dorothy, gazing around at the
bare room. "But it's a place to stay, anyhow."

"What are those holes up there?" enquired the boy, pointing to some
openings that appeared near the top of the dome.

"They look like doorways," said Dorothy; "only there are no stairs to
get to them."

"You forget that stairs are unnecessary," observed the Wizard. "Let us
walk up, and see where the doors lead to."

With this he began walking in the air toward the high openings, and
Dorothy and Zeb followed him. It was the same sort of climb one
experiences when walking up a hill, and they were nearly out of breath
when they came to the row of openings, which they perceived to be
doorways leading into halls in the upper part of the house. Following
these halls they discovered many small rooms opening from them, and some
were furnished with glass benches, tables and chairs. But there were no
beds at all.

"I wonder if these people never sleep," said the girl.

"Why, there seems to be no night at all in this country," Zeb replied.
"Those colored suns are exactly in the same place they were when we
came, and if there is no sunset there can be no night."

"Very true," agreed the Wizard. "But it is a long time since I have had
any sleep, and I'm tired. So I think I shall lie down upon one of these
hard glass benches and take a nap."

"I will, too," said Dorothy, and chose a little room at the end of the
hall.

Zeb walked down again to unharness Jim, who, when he found himself free,
rolled over a few times and then settled down to sleep, with Eureka
nestling comfortably beside his big, boney body. Then the boy returned
to one of the upper rooms, and in spite of the hardness of the glass
bench was soon deep in slumberland.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 6.

THE MANGABOOS PROVE DANGEROUS


When the Wizard awoke the six colored suns were shining down upon the
Land of the Mangaboos just as they had done ever since his arrival. The
little man, having had a good sleep, felt rested and refreshed, and
looking through the glass partition of the room he saw Zeb sitting up on
his bench and yawning. So the Wizard went in to him.

"Zeb," said he, "my balloon is of no further use in this strange
country, so I may as well leave it on the square where it fell. But in
the basket-car are some things I would like to keep with me. I wish you
would go and fetch my satchel, two lanterns, and a can of kerosene oil
that is under the seat. There is nothing else that I care about."

So the boy went willingly upon the errand, and by the time he had
returned Dorothy was awake. Then the three held a counsel to decide what
they should do next, but could think of no way to better their
condition.

"I don't like these veg'table people," said the little girl. "They're
cold and flabby, like cabbages, in spite of their prettiness."

"I agree with you. It is because there is no warm blood in them,"
remarked the Wizard.

"And they have no hearts; so they can't love anyone--not even
themselves," declared the boy.

"The Princess is lovely to look at," continued Dorothy, thoughtfully;
"but I don't care much for her, after all. If there was any other place
to go, I'd like to go there."

"But _is_ there any other place?" asked the Wizard.

"I don't know," she answered.

Just then they heard the big voice of Jim the cab-horse calling to them,
and going to the doorway leading to the dome they found the Princess and
a throng of her people had entered the House of the Sorcerer.

So they went down to greet the beautiful vegetable lady, who said to
them:

"I have been talking with my advisors about you meat people, and we have
decided that you do not belong in the Land of the Mangaboos and must not
remain here."

"How can we go away?" asked Dorothy.

"Oh, you cannot go away, of course; so you must be destroyed," was the
answer.

"In what way?" enquired the Wizard.

"We shall throw you three people into the Garden of the Twining Vines,"
said the Princess, "and they will soon crush you and devour your bodies
to make themselves grow bigger. The animals you have with you we will
drive to the mountains and put into the Black Pit. Then our country will
be rid of all its unwelcome visitors."

"But you are in need of a Sorcerer," said the Wizard, "and not one of
those growing is yet ripe enough to pick. I am greater than any
thorn-covered sorcerer that ever grew in your garden. Why destroy me?"

"It is true we need a Sorcerer," acknowledged the Princess, "but I am
informed that one of our own will be ready to pick in a few days, to
take the place of Gwig, whom you cut in two before it was time for him
to be planted. Let us see your arts, and the sorceries you are able to
perform. Then I will decide whether to destroy you with the others or
not."

At this the Wizard made a bow to the people and repeated his trick of
producing the nine tiny piglets and making them disappear again. He did
it very cleverly, indeed, and the Princess looked at the strange
piglets as if she were as truly astonished as any vegetable person could
be. But afterward she said:

"I have heard of this wonderful magic. But it accomplishes nothing of
value. What else can you do?"

The Wizard tried to think. Then he jointed together the blades of his
sword and balanced it very skillfully upon the end of his nose. But even
that did not satisfy the Princess.

Just then his eye fell upon the lanterns and the can of kerosene oil
which Zeb had brought from the car of his balloon, and he got a clever
idea from those commonplace things.

"Your Highness," said he, "I will now proceed to prove my magic by
creating two suns that you have never seen before; also I will exhibit a
Destroyer much more dreadful than your Clinging Vines."

So he placed Dorothy upon one side of him and the boy upon the other and
set a lantern upon each of their heads.

"Don't laugh," he whispered to them, "or you will spoil the effect of my
magic."

[Illustration: "NOW, PRINCESS," EXCLAIMED THE WIZARD.]

Then, with much dignity and a look of vast importance upon his wrinkled
face, the Wizard got out his match-box and lighted the two lanterns. The
glare they made was very small when compared with the radiance of the
six great colored suns; but still they gleamed steadily and clearly. The
Mangaboos were much impressed because they had never before seen any
light that did not come directly from their suns.

Next the Wizard poured a pool of oil from the can upon the glass floor,
where it covered quite a broad surface. When he lighted the oil a
hundred tongues of flame shot up, and the effect was really imposing.

"Now, Princess," exclaimed the Wizard, "those of your advisors who
wished to throw us into the Garden of Clinging Vines must step within
this circle of light. If they advised you well, and were in the right,
they will not be injured in any way. But if any advised you wrongly, the
light will wither him."

The advisors of the Princess did not like this test; but she commanded
them to step into the flame and one by one they did so, and were
scorched so badly that the air was soon filled with an odor like that of
baked potatoes. Some of the Mangaboos fell down and had to be dragged
from the fire, and all were so withered that it would be necessary to
plant them at once.

"Sir," said the Princess to the Wizard, "you are greater than any
Sorcerer we have ever known. As it is evident that my people have
advised me wrongly, I will not cast you three people into the dreadful
Garden of the Clinging Vines; but your animals must be driven into the
Black Pit in the mountain, for my subjects cannot bear to have them
around."

The Wizard was so pleased to have saved the two children and himself
that he said nothing against this decree; but when the Princess had gone
both Jim and Eureka protested they did not want to go to the Black Pit,
and Dorothy promised she would do all that she could to save them from
such a fate.

For two or three days after this--if we call days the periods between
sleep, there being no night to divide the hours into days--our friends
were not disturbed in any way. They were even permitted to occupy the
House of the Sorcerer in peace, as if it had been their own, and to
wander in the gardens in search of food.

Once they came near to the enclosed Garden of the Clinging Vines, and
walking high into the air looked down upon it with much interest. They
saw a mass of tough green vines all matted together and writhing and
twisting around like a nest of great snakes. Everything the vines
touched they crushed, and our adventurers were indeed thankful to have
escaped being cast among them.

Whenever the Wizard went to sleep he would take the nine tiny piglets
from his pocket and let them run around on the floor of his room to
amuse themselves and get some exercise; and one time they found his
glass door ajar and wandered into the hall and then into the bottom part
of the great dome, walking through the air as easily as Eureka could.
They knew the kitten, by this time, so they scampered over to where she
lay beside Jim and commenced to frisk and play with her.

The cab-horse, who never slept long at a time, sat upon his haunches and
watched the tiny piglets and the kitten with much approval.

"Don't be rough!" he would call out, if Eureka knocked over one of the
round, fat piglets with her paw; but the pigs never minded, and enjoyed
the sport very greatly.

Suddenly they looked up to find the room filled with the silent,
solemn-eyed Mangaboos. Each of the vegetable folks bore a branch covered
with sharp thorns, which was thrust defiantly toward the horse, the
kitten and the piglets.

"Here--stop this foolishness!" Jim roared, angrily; but after being
pricked once or twice he got upon his four legs and kept out of the way
of the thorns.

The Mangaboos surrounded them in solid ranks, but left an opening to the
doorway of the hall; so the animals slowly retreated until they were
driven from the room and out upon the street. Here were more of the
vegetable people with thorns, and silently they urged the now frightened
creatures down the street. Jim had to be careful not to step upon the
tiny piglets, who scampered under his feet grunting and squealing, while
Eureka, snarling and biting at the thorns pushed toward her, also tried
to protect the pretty little things from injury. Slowly but steadily the
heartless Mangaboos drove them on, until they had passed through the
city and the gardens and come to the broad plains leading to the
mountain.

"What does all this mean, anyhow?" asked the horse, jumping to escape a
thorn.

"Why, they are driving us toward the Black Pit, into which they
threatened to cast us," replied the kitten. "If I were as big as you
are, Jim, I'd fight these miserable turnip-roots!"

"What would you do?" enquired Jim.

"I'd kick out with those long legs and iron-shod hoofs."

"All right," said the horse; "I'll do it."

An instant later he suddenly backed toward the crowd of Mangaboos and
kicked out his hind legs as hard as he could. A dozen of them smashed
together and tumbled to the ground, and seeing his success Jim kicked
again and again, charging into the vegetable crowd, knocking them in
all directions and sending the others scattering to escape his iron
heels. Eureka helped him by flying into the faces of the enemy and
scratching and biting furiously, and the kitten ruined so many vegetable
complexions that the Mangaboos feared her as much as they did the horse.

But the foes were too many to be repulsed for long. They tired Jim and
Eureka out, and although the field of battle was thickly covered with
mashed and disabled Mangaboos, our animal friends had to give up at last
and allow themselves to be driven to the mountain.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 7.

INTO THE BLACK PIT AND OUT AGAIN


When they came to the mountain it proved to be a rugged, towering chunk
of deep green glass, and looked dismal and forbidding in the extreme.
Half way up the steep was a yawning cave, black as night beyond the
point where the rainbow rays of the colored suns reached into it.

The Mangaboos drove the horse and the kitten and the piglets into this
dark hole and then, having pushed the buggy in after them--for it seemed
some of them had dragged it all the way from the domed hall--they began
to pile big glass rocks within the entrance, so that the prisoners could
not get out again.

"This is dreadful!" groaned Jim. "It will be about the end of our
adventures, I guess."

"If the Wizard was here," said one of the piglets, sobbing bitterly, "he
would not see us suffer so."

"We ought to have called him and Dorothy when we were first attacked,"
added Eureka. "But never mind; be brave, my friends, and I will go and
tell our masters where you are, and get them to come to your rescue."

The mouth of the hole was nearly filled up now, but the kitten gave a
leap through the remaining opening and at once scampered up into the
air. The Mangaboos saw her escape, and several of them caught up their
thorns and gave chase, mounting through the air after her. Eureka,
however, was lighter than the Mangaboos, and while they could mount only
about a hundred feet above the earth the kitten found she could go
nearly two hundred feet. So she ran along over their heads until she had
left them far behind and below and had come to the city and the House of
the Sorcerer. There she entered in at Dorothy's window in the dome and
aroused her from her sleep.

As soon as the little girl knew what had happened she awakened the
Wizard and Zeb, and at once preparations were made to go to the rescue
of Jim and the piglets. The Wizard carried his satchel, which was quite
heavy, and Zeb carried the two lanterns and the oil can. Dorothy's
wicker suit-case was still under the seat of the buggy, and by good
fortune the boy had also placed the harness in the buggy when he had
taken it off from Jim to let the horse lie down and rest. So there was
nothing for the girl to carry but the kitten, which she held close to
her bosom and tried to comfort, for its little heart was still beating
rapidly.

Some of the Mangaboos discovered them as soon as they left the House of
the Sorcerer; but when they started toward the mountain the vegetable
people allowed them to proceed without interference, yet followed in a
crowd behind them so that they could not go back again.

Before long they neared the Black Pit, where a busy swarm of Mangaboos,
headed by their Princess, was engaged in piling up glass rocks before
the entrance.

"Stop, I command you!" cried the Wizard, in an angry tone, and at once
began pulling down the rocks to liberate Jim and the piglets. Instead of
opposing him in this they stood back in silence until he had made a
good-sized hole in the barrier, when by order of the Princess they all
sprang forward and thrust out their sharp thorns.

[Illustration: THROUGH THE BLACK PIT.]

Dorothy hopped inside the opening to escape being pricked, and Zeb and
the Wizard, after enduring a few stabs from the thorns, were glad to
follow her. At once the Mangaboos began piling up the rocks of glass
again, and as the little man realized that they were all about to be
entombed in the mountain he said to the children:

"My dears, what shall we do? Jump out and fight?"

"What's the use?" replied Dorothy. "I'd as soon die here as live much
longer among those cruel and heartless people."

"That's the way I feel about it," remarked Zeb, rubbing his wounds.
"I've had enough of the Mangaboos."

"All right," said the Wizard; "I'm with you, whatever you decide. But we
can't live long in this cavern, that's certain."

Noticing that the light was growing dim he picked up his nine piglets,
patted each one lovingly on its fat little head, and placed them
carefully in his inside pocket.

Zeb struck a match and lighted one of the lanterns. The rays of the
colored suns were now shut out from them forever, for the last chinks
had been filled up in the wall that separated their prison from the Land
of the Mangaboos.

"How big is this hole?" asked Dorothy.

"I'll explore it and see," replied the boy.

So he carried the lantern back for quite a distance, while Dorothy and
the Wizard followed at his side. The cavern did not come to an end, as
they had expected it would, but slanted upward through the great glass
mountain, running in a direction that promised to lead them to the side
opposite the Mangaboo country.

"It isn't a bad road," observed the Wizard, "and if we followed it it
might lead us to some place that is more comfortable than this black
pocket we are now in. I suppose the vegetable folk were always afraid to
enter this cavern because it is dark; but we have our lanterns to light
the way, so I propose that we start out and discover where this tunnel
in the mountain leads to."

The others agreed readily to this sensible suggestion, and at once the
boy began to harness Jim to the buggy. When all was in readiness the
three took their seats in the buggy and Jim started cautiously along the
way, Zeb driving while the Wizard and Dorothy each held a lighted
lantern so the horse could see where to go.

Sometimes the tunnel was so narrow that the wheels of the buggy grazed
the sides; then it would broaden out as wide as a street; but the floor
was usually smooth, and for a long time they travelled on without any
accident. Jim stopped sometimes to rest, for the climb was rather steep
and tiresome.

"We must be nearly as high as the six colored suns, by this time," said
Dorothy. "I didn't know this mountain was so tall."

"We are certainly a good distance away from the Land of the Mangaboos,"
added Zeb; "for we have slanted away from it ever since we started."

But they kept steadily moving, and just as Jim was about tired out with
his long journey the way suddenly grew lighter, and Zeb put out the
lanterns to save the oil.

To their joy they found it was a white light that now greeted them, for
all were weary of the colored rainbow lights which, after a time, had
made their eyes ache with their constantly shifting rays. The sides of
the tunnel showed before them like the inside of a long spy-glass, and
the floor became more level. Jim hastened his lagging steps at this
assurance of a quick relief from the dark passage, and in a few moments
more they had emerged from the mountain and found themselves face to
face with a new and charming country.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 8.

THE VALLEY OF VOICES


By journeying through the glass mountain they had reached a delightful
valley that was shaped like the hollow of a great cup, with another
rugged mountain showing on the other side of it, and soft and pretty
green hills at the ends. It was all laid out into lovely lawns and
gardens, with pebble paths leading through them and groves of beautiful
and stately trees dotting the landscape here and there. There were
orchards, too, bearing luscious fruits that are all unknown in our
world. Alluring brooks of crystal water flowed sparkling between their
flower-strewn banks, while scattered over the valley were dozens of the
quaintest and most picturesque cottages our travelers had ever beheld.
None of them were in clusters, such as villages or towns, but each had
ample grounds of its own, with orchards and gardens surrounding it.

As the new arrivals gazed upon this exquisite scene they were enraptured
by its beauties and the fragrance that permeated the soft air, which
they breathed so gratefully after the confined atmosphere of the tunnel.
Several minutes were consumed in silent admiration before they noticed
two very singular and unusual facts about this valley. One was that it
was lighted from some unseen source; for no sun or moon was in the
arched blue sky, although every object was flooded with a clear and
perfect light. The second and even more singular fact was the absence of
any inhabitant of this splendid place. From their elevated position they
could overlook the entire valley, but not a single moving object could
they see. All appeared mysteriously deserted.

The mountain on this side was not glass, but made of a stone similar to
granite. With some difficulty and danger Jim drew the buggy over the
loose rocks until he reached the green lawns below, where the paths and
orchards and gardens began. The nearest cottage was still some distance
away.

"Isn't it fine?" cried Dorothy, in a joyous voice, as she sprang out of
the buggy and let Eureka run frolicking over the velvety grass.

"Yes, indeed!" answered Zeb. "We were lucky to get away from those
dreadful vegetable people."

"It wouldn't be so bad," remarked the Wizard, gazing around him, "if we
were obliged to live here always. We couldn't find a prettier place, I'm
sure."

He took the piglets from his pocket and let them run on the grass, and
Jim tasted a mouthful of the green blades and declared he was very
contented in his new surroundings.

"We can't walk in the air here, though," called Eureka, who had tried it
and failed; but the others were satisfied to walk on the ground, and the
Wizard said they must be nearer the surface of the earth than they had
been in the Mangaboo country, for everything was more homelike and
natural.

"But where are the people?" asked Dorothy.

The little man shook his bald head.

"Can't imagine, my dear," he replied.

They heard the sudden twittering of a bird, but could not find the
creature anywhere. Slowly they walked along the path toward the nearest
cottage, the piglets racing and gambolling beside them and Jim pausing
at every step for another mouthful of grass.

Presently they came to a low plant which had broad, spreading leaves, in
the center of which grew a single fruit about as large as a peach. The
fruit was so daintily colored and so fragrant, and looked so appetizing
and delicious that Dorothy stopped and exclaimed:

"What is it, do you s'pose?"

The piglets had smelled the fruit quickly, and before the girl could
reach out her hand to pluck it every one of the nine tiny ones had
rushed in and commenced to devour it with great eagerness.

"It's good, anyway," said Zeb, "or those little rascals wouldn't have
gobbled it up so greedily."

"Where are they?" asked Dorothy, in astonishment.

They all looked around, but the piglets had disappeared.

"Dear me!" cried the Wizard; "they must have run away. But I didn't see
them go; did you?"

"No!" replied the boy and the girl, together.

"Here,--piggy, piggy, piggy!" called their master, anxiously.

Several squeals and grunts were instantly heard at his feet, but the
Wizard could not discover a single piglet.

"Where are you?" he asked.

"Why, right beside you," spoke a tiny voice. "Can't you see us?"

[Illustration: "ARE THERE REALLY PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM?"]

"No," answered the little man, in a puzzled tone.

"We can see you," said another of the piglets.

The Wizard stooped down and put out his hand, and at once felt the small
fat body of one of his pets. He picked it up, but could not see what he
held.

"It is very strange," said he, soberly. "The piglets have become
invisible, in some curious way."

"I'll bet it's because they ate that peach!" cried the kitten.

"It wasn't a peach, Eureka," said Dorothy. "I only hope it wasn't
poison."

"It was fine, Dorothy," called one of the piglets.

"We'll eat all we can find of them," said another.

"But _we_ mus'n't eat them," the Wizard warned the children, "or we too
may become invisible, and lose each other. If we come across another of
the strange fruit we must avoid it."

Calling the piglets to him he picked them all up, one by one, and put
them away in his pocket; for although he could not see them he could
feel them, and when he had buttoned his coat he knew they were safe for
the present.

The travellers now resumed their walk toward the cottage, which they
presently reached. It was a pretty place, with vines growing thickly
over the broad front porch. The door stood open and a table was set in
the front room, with four chairs drawn up to it. On the table were
plates, knives and forks, and dishes of bread, meat and fruits. The meat
was smoking hot and the knives and forks were performing strange antics
and jumping here and there in quite a puzzling way. But not a single
person appeared to be in the room.

"How funny!" exclaimed Dorothy, who with Zeb and the Wizard now stood in
the doorway.

A peal of merry laughter answered her, and the knives and forks fell to
the plates with a clatter. One of the chairs pushed back from the table,
and this was so astonishing and mysterious that Dorothy was almost
tempted to run away in fright.

"Here are strangers, mama!" cried the shrill and childish voice of some
unseen person.

"So I see, my dear," answered another voice, soft and womanly.

"What do you want?" demanded a third voice, in a stern, gruff accent.

"Well, well!" said the Wizard; "are there really people in this room?"

"Of course," replied the man's voice.

"And--pardon me for the foolish question--but, are you all invisible?"

"Surely," the woman answered, repeating her low, rippling laughter.
"Are you surprised that you are unable to see the people of Voe?"

"Why, yes," stammered the Wizard. "All the people I have ever met before
were very plain to see."

"Where do you come from, then?" asked the woman, in a curious tone.

"We belong upon the face of the earth," explained the Wizard, "but
recently, during an earthquake, we fell down a crack and landed in the
Country of the Mangaboos."

"Dreadful creatures!" exclaimed the woman's voice. "I've heard of them."

"They walled us up in a mountain," continued the Wizard; "but we found
there was a tunnel through to this side, so we came here. It is a
beautiful place. What do you call it?"

"It is the Valley of Voe."

"Thank you. We have seen no people since we arrived, so we came to this
house to enquire our way."

"Are you hungry?" asked the woman's voice.

"I could eat something," said Dorothy.

"So could I," added Zeb.

"But we do not wish to intrude, I assure you," the Wizard hastened to
say.

"That's all right," returned the man's voice, more pleasantly than
before. "You are welcome to what we have."

As he spoke the voice came so near to Zeb that he jumped back in alarm.
Two childish voices laughed merrily at this action, and Dorothy was sure
they were in no danger among such light-hearted folks, even if those
folks couldn't be seen.

"What curious animal is that which is eating the grass on my lawn?"
enquired the man's voice.

"That's Jim," said the girl. "He's a horse."

"What is he good for?" was the next question.

"He draws the buggy you see fastened to him, and we ride in the buggy
instead of walking," she explained.

"Can he fight?" asked the man's voice.

"No! he can kick pretty hard with his heels, and bite a little; but Jim
can't 'zactly fight," she replied.

"Then the bears will get him," said one of the children's voices.

"Bears!" exclaimed Dorothy. "Are these bears here?"

"That is the one evil of our country," answered the invisible man. "Many
large and fierce bears roam in the Valley of Voe, and when they can
catch any of us they eat us up; but as they cannot see us, we seldom get
caught."

"Are the bears invis'ble, too?" asked the girl.

"Yes; for they eat of the dama-fruit, as we all do, and that keeps them
from being seen by any eye, whether human or animal."

"Does the dama-fruit grow on a low bush, and look something like a
peach?" asked the Wizard.

"Yes," was the reply.

"If it makes you invis'ble, why do you eat it?" Dorothy enquired.

"For two reasons, my dear," the woman's voice answered. "The dama-fruit
is the most delicious thing that grows, and when it makes us invisible
the bears cannot find us to eat us up. But now, good wanderers, your
luncheon is on the table, so please sit down and eat as much as you
like."

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 9.

THEY FIGHT THE INVISIBLE BEARS


The strangers took their seats at the table willingly enough, for they
were all hungry and the platters were now heaped with good things to
eat. In front of each place was a plate bearing one of the delicious
dama-fruit, and the perfume that rose from these was so enticing and
sweet that they were sorely tempted to eat of them and become invisible.

But Dorothy satisfied her hunger with other things, and her companions
did likewise, resisting the temptation.

"Why do you not eat the damas?" asked the woman's voice.

"We don't want to get invis'ble," answered the girl.

"But if you remain visible the bears will see you and devour you," said
a girlish young voice, that belonged to one of the children. "We who
live here much prefer to be invisible; for we can still hug and kiss one
another, and are quite safe from the bears."

"And we do not have to be so particular about our dress," remarked the
man.

"And mama can't tell whether my face is dirty or not!" added the other
childish voice, gleefully.

"But I make you wash it, every time I think of it," said the mother;
"for it stands to reason your face is dirty, Ianu, whether I can see it
or not."

Dorothy laughed and stretched out her hands.

"Come here, please--Ianu and your sister--and let me feel of you," she
requested.

They came to her willingly, and Dorothy passed her hands over their
faces and forms and decided one was a girl of about her own age and the
other a boy somewhat smaller. The girl's hair was soft and fluffy and
her skin as smooth as satin. When Dorothy gently touched her nose and
ears and lips they seemed to be well and delicately formed.

"If I could see you I am sure you would be beautiful," she declared.

The girl laughed, and her mother said:

"We are not vain in the Valley of Voe, because we can not display our
beauty, and good actions and pleasant ways are what make us lovely to
our companions. Yet we can see and appreciate the beauties of nature,
the dainty flowers and trees, the green fields and the clear blue of the
sky."

"How about the birds and beasts and fishes?" asked Zeb.

"The birds we cannot see, because they love to eat of the damas as much
as we do; yet we hear their sweet songs and enjoy them. Neither can we
see the cruel bears, for they also eat the fruit. But the fishes that
swim in our brooks we can see, and often we catch them to eat."

"It occurs to me you have a great deal to make you happy, even while
invisible," remarked the Wizard. "Nevertheless, we prefer to remain
visible while we are in your valley."

Just then Eureka came in, for she had been until now wandering outside
with Jim; and when the kitten saw the table set with food she cried out:

"Now you must feed me, Dorothy, for I'm half starved."

The children were inclined to be frightened by the sight of the small
animal, which reminded them of the bears; but Dorothy reassured them by
explaining that Eureka was a pet and could do no harm even if she wished
to. Then, as the others had by this time moved away from the table, the
kitten sprang upon the chair and put her paws upon the cloth to see what
there was to eat. To her surprise an unseen hand clutched her and held
her suspended in the air. Eureka was frantic with terror, and tried to
scratch and bite, so the next moment she was dropped to the floor.

"Did you see that, Dorothy?" she gasped.

"Yes, dear," her mistress replied; "there are people living in this
house, although we cannot see them. And you must have better manners,
Eureka, or something worse will happen to you."

She placed a plate of food upon the floor and the kitten ate greedily.

"Give me that nice-smelling fruit I saw on the table," she begged, when
she had cleaned the plate.

"Those are damas," said Dorothy, "and you must never even taste them,
Eureka, or you'll get invis'ble, and then we can't see you at all."

The kitten gazed wistfully at the forbidden fruit.

"Does it hurt to be invis'ble?" she asked.

"I don't know," Dorothy answered; "but it would hurt me dre'fully to
lose you."

"Very well, I won't touch it," decided the kitten; "but you must keep it
away from me, for the smell is very tempting."

"Can you tell us, sir or ma'am," said the Wizard, addressing the air
because he did not quite know where the unseen people stood, "if there
is any way we can get out of your beautiful Valley, and on top of the
Earth again."

"Oh, one can leave the Valley easily enough," answered the man's voice;
"but to do so you must enter a far less pleasant country. As for
reaching the top of the earth, I have never heard that it is possible to
do that, and if you succeeded in getting there you would probably fall
off."

"Oh, no," said Dorothy, "we've been there, and we know."

"The Valley of Voe is certainly a charming place," resumed the Wizard;
"but we cannot be contented in any other land than our own, for long.
Even if we should come to unpleasant places on our way it is necessary,
in order to reach the earth's surface, to keep moving on toward it."

"In that case," said the man, "it will be best for you to cross our
Valley and mount the spiral staircase inside the Pyramid Mountain. The
top of that mountain is lost in the clouds, and when you reach it you
will be in the awful Land of Naught, where the Gargoyles live."

"What are Gargoyles?" asked Zeb.

"I do not know, young sir. Our greatest Champion, Overman-Anu, once
climbed the spiral stairway and fought nine days with the Gargoyles
before he could escape them and come back; but he could never be induced
to describe the dreadful creatures, and soon afterward a bear caught
him and ate him up."

The wanderers were rather discouraged by this gloomy report, but Dorothy
said with a sigh:

"If the only way to get home is to meet the Gurgles, then we've got to
meet 'em. They can't be worse than the Wicked Witch or the Nome King."

"But you must remember you had the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman to help
you conquer those enemies," suggested the Wizard. "Just now, my dear,
there is not a single warrior in your company."

"Oh, I guess Zeb could fight if he had to. Couldn't you, Zeb?" asked the
little girl.

"Perhaps; if I had to," answered Zeb, doubtfully.

"And you have the jointed sword that you chopped the veg'table Sorcerer
in two with," the girl said to the little man.

"True," he replied; "and in my satchel are other useful things to fight
with."

"What the Gargoyles most dread is a noise," said the man's voice. "Our
Champion told me that when he shouted his battle-cry the creatures
shuddered and drew back, hesitating to continue the combat. But they
were in great numbers, and the Champion could not shout much because he
had to save his breath for fighting."

"Very good," said the Wizard; "we can all yell better than we can fight,
so we ought to defeat the Gargoyles."

"But tell me," said Dorothy, "how did such a brave Champion happen to
let the bears eat him? And if he was invis'ble, and the bears invis'ble,
who knows that they really ate him up?"

"The Champion had killed eleven bears in his time," returned the unseen
man; "and we know this is true because when any creature is dead the
invisible charm of the dama-fruit ceases to be active, and the slain one
can be plainly seen by all eyes. When the Champion killed a bear
everyone could see it; and when the bears killed the Champion we all saw
several pieces of him scattered about, which of course disappeared again
when the bears devoured them."

They now bade farewell to the kind but unseen people of the cottage, and
after the man had called their attention to a high, pyramid-shaped
mountain on the opposite side of the Valley, and told them how to travel
in order to reach it, they again started upon their journey.

They followed the course of a broad stream and passed several more
pretty cottages; but of course they saw no one, nor did any one speak to
them. Fruits and flowers grew plentifully all about, and there were many
of the delicious damas that the people of Voe were so fond of.

About noon they stopped to allow Jim to rest in the shade of a pretty
orchard, and while they plucked and ate some of the cherries and plums
that grew there a soft voice suddenly said to them:

"There are bears near by. Be careful."

The Wizard got out his sword at once, and Zeb grabbed the horse-whip.
Dorothy climbed into the buggy, although Jim had been unharnessed from
it and was grazing some distance away.

The owner of the unseen voice laughed lightly and said:

"You cannot escape the bears that way."

"How _can_ we 'scape?" asked Dorothy, nervously, for an unseen danger is
always the hardest to face.

"You must take to the river," was the reply. "The bears will not venture
upon the water."

"But we would be drowned!" exclaimed the girl.

"Oh, there is no need of that," said the voice, which from its gentle
tones seemed to belong to a young girl. "You are strangers in the Valley
of Voe, and do not seem to know our ways; so I will try to save you."

The next moment a broad-leaved plant was jerked from the ground where it
grew and held suspended in the air before the Wizard.

[Illustration: ESCAPING THE INVISIBLE BEARS.]

"Sir," said the voice, "you must rub these leaves upon the soles of
all your feet, and then you will be able to walk upon the water without
sinking below the surface. It is a secret the bears do not know, and we
people of Voe usually walk upon the water when we travel, and so escape
our enemies."

"Thank you!" cried the Wizard, joyfully, and at once rubbed a leaf upon
the soles of Dorothy's shoes and then upon his own. The girl took a leaf
and rubbed it upon the kitten's paws, and the rest of the plant was
handed to Zeb, who, after applying it to his own feet, carefully rubbed
it upon all four of Jim's hoofs and then upon the tires of the
buggy-wheels. He had nearly finished this last task when a low growling
was suddenly heard and the horse began to jump around and kick viciously
with his heels.

"Quick! To the water, or you are lost!" cried their unseen friend, and
without hesitation the Wizard drew the buggy down the bank and out upon
the broad river, for Dorothy was still seated in it with Eureka in her
arms. They did not sink at all, owing to the virtues of the strange
plant they had used, and when the buggy was in the middle of the stream
the Wizard returned to the bank to assist Zeb and Jim.

The horse was plunging madly about, and two or three deep gashes
appeared upon its flanks, from which the blood flowed freely.

"Run for the river!" shouted the Wizard, and Jim quickly freed himself
from his unseen tormenters by a few vicious kicks and then obeyed. As
soon as he trotted out upon the surface of the river he found himself
safe from pursuit, and Zeb was already running across the water toward
Dorothy.

As the little Wizard turned to follow them he felt a hot breath against
his cheek and heard a low, fierce growl. At once he began stabbing at
the air with his sword, and he knew that he had struck some substance
because when he drew back the blade it was dripping with blood. The
third time that he thrust out the weapon there was a loud roar and a
fall, and suddenly at his feet appeared the form of a great red bear,
which was nearly as big as the horse and much stronger and fiercer. The
beast was quite dead from the sword thrusts, and after a glance at its
terrible claws and sharp teeth the little man turned in a panic and
rushed out upon the water, for other menacing growls told him more bears
were near.

On the river, however, the adventurers seemed to be perfectly safe.
Dorothy and the buggy had floated slowly down stream with the current of
the water, and the others made haste to join her. The Wizard opened his
satchel and got out some sticking-plaster with which he mended the cuts
Jim had received from the claws of the bears.

"I think we'd better stick to the river, after this," said Dorothy. "If
our unknown friend hadn't warned us, and told us what to do, we would
all be dead by this time."

"That is true," agreed the Wizard, "and as the river seems to be flowing
in the direction of the Pyramid Mountain it will be the easiest way for
us to travel."

Zeb hitched Jim to the buggy again, and the horse trotted along and drew
them rapidly over the smooth water. The kitten was at first dreadfully
afraid of getting wet, but Dorothy let her down and soon Eureka was
frisking along beside the buggy without being scared a bit. Once a
little fish swam too near the surface, and the kitten grabbed it in her
mouth and ate it up as quick as a wink; but Dorothy cautioned her to be
careful what she ate in this valley of enchantments, and no more fishes
were careless enough to swim within reach.

After a journey of several hours they came to a point where the river
curved, and they found they must cross a mile or so of the Valley before
they came to the Pyramid Mountain. There were few houses in this part,
and few orchards or flowers; so our friends feared they might encounter
more of the savage bears, which they had learned to dread with all their
hearts.

"You'll have to make a dash, Jim," said the Wizard, "and run as fast as
you can go."

"All right," answered the horse; "I'll do my best. But you must remember
I'm old, and my dashing days are past and gone."

All three got into the buggy and Zeb picked up the reins, though Jim
needed no guidance of any sort. The horse was still smarting from the
sharp claws of the invisible bears, and as soon as he was on land and
headed toward the mountain the thought that more of those fearsome
creatures might be near acted as a spur and sent him galloping along in
a way that made Dorothy catch her breath.

Then Zeb, in a spirit of mischief, uttered a growl like that of the
bears, and Jim pricked up his ears and fairly flew. His boney legs moved
so fast they could scarcely be seen, and the Wizard clung fast to the
seat and yelled "Whoa!" at the top of his voice.

"I--I'm 'fraid he's--he's running away!" gasped Dorothy.

"I _know_ he is," said Zeb; "but no bear can catch him if he keeps up
that gait--and the harness or the buggy don't break."

Jim did not make a mile a minute; but almost before they were aware of
it he drew up at the foot of the mountain, so suddenly that the Wizard
and Zeb both sailed over the dashboard and landed in the soft
grass--where they rolled over several times before they stopped.
Dorothy nearly went with them, but she was holding fast to the iron rail
of the seat, and that saved her. She squeezed the kitten, though, until
it screeched; and then the old cab-horse made several curious sounds
that led the little girl to suspect he was laughing at them all.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 10.

THE BRAIDED MAN OF PYRAMID MOUNTAIN


The mountain before them was shaped like a cone and was so tall that its
point was lost in the clouds. Directly facing the place where Jim had
stopped was an arched opening leading to a broad stairway. The stairs
were cut in the rock inside the mountain, and they were broad and not
very steep, because they circled around like a cork-screw, and at the
arched opening where the flight began the circle was quite big. At the
foot of the stairs was a sign reading:

        WARNING.
  These steps lead to the
        Land of the Gargoyles.
    DANGER! KEEP OUT.

"I wonder how Jim is ever going to draw the buggy up so many stairs,"
said Dorothy, gravely.

"No trouble at all," declared the horse, with a contemptuous neigh.
"Still, I don't care to drag any passengers. You'll all have to walk."

"Suppose the stairs get steeper?" suggested Zeb, doubtfully.

"Then you'll have to boost the buggy-wheels, that's all," answered Jim.

"We'll try it, anyway," said the Wizard. "It's the only way to get out
of the Valley of Voe."

So they began to ascend the stairs, Dorothy and the Wizard first, Jim
next, drawing the buggy, and then Zeb to watch that nothing happened to
the harness.

The light was dim, and soon they mounted into total darkness, so that
the Wizard was obliged to get out his lanterns to light the way. But
this enabled them to proceed steadily until they came to a landing where
there was a rift in the side of the mountain that let in both light and
air. Looking through this opening they could see the Valley of Voe lying
far below them, the cottages seeming like toy houses from that distance.

After resting a few moments they resumed their climb, and still the
stairs were broad and low enough for Jim to draw the buggy easily after
him. The old horse panted a little, and had to stop often to get his
breath. At such times they were all glad to wait for him, for
continually climbing up stairs is sure to make one's legs ache.

They wound about, always going upward, for some time. The lights from
the lanterns dimly showed the way, but it was a gloomy journey, and they
were pleased when a broad streak of light ahead assured them they were
coming to a second landing.

Here one side of the mountain had a great hole in it, like the mouth of
a cavern, and the stairs stopped at the near edge of the floor and
commenced ascending again at the opposite edge.

The opening in the mountain was on the side opposite to the Valley of
Voe, and our travellers looked out upon a strange scene. Below them was
a vast space, at the bottom of which was a black sea with rolling
billows, through which little tongues of flame constantly shot up. Just
above them, and almost on a level with their platform, were banks of
rolling clouds which constantly shifted position and changed color. The
blues and greys were very beautiful, and Dorothy noticed that on the
cloud banks sat or reclined fleecy, shadowy forms of beautiful beings
who must have been the Cloud Fairies. Mortals who stand upon the earth
and look up at the sky cannot often distinguish these forms, but our
friends were now so near to the clouds that they observed the dainty
fairies very clearly.

"Are they real?" asked Zeb, in an awed voice.

"Of course," replied Dorothy, softly. "They are the Cloud Fairies."

"They seem like open-work," remarked the boy, gazing intently. "If I
should squeeze one, there wouldn't be anything left of it."

In the open space between the clouds and the black, bubbling sea far
beneath, could be seen an occasional strange bird winging its way
swiftly through the air. These birds were of enormous size, and reminded
Zeb of the rocs he had read about in the Arabian Nights. They had fierce
eyes and sharp talons and beaks, and the children hoped none of them
would venture into the cavern.

"Well, I declare!" suddenly exclaimed the little Wizard. "What in the
world is this?"

They turned around and found a man standing on the floor in the center
of the cave, who bowed very politely when he saw he had attracted their
attention. He was a very old man, bent nearly double; but the queerest
thing about him was his white hair and beard. These were so long that
they reached to his feet, and both the hair and the beard were
carefully plaited into many braids, and the end of each braid fastened
with a bow of colored ribbon.

"Where did you come from?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"No place at all," answered the man with the braids; "that is, not
recently. Once I lived on top the earth, but for many years I have had
my factory in this spot--half way up Pyramid Mountain."

"Are we only half way up?" enquired the boy, in a discouraged tone.

"I believe so, my lad," replied the braided man. "But as I have never
been in either direction, down or up, since I arrived, I cannot be
positive whether it is exactly half way or not."

"Have you a factory in this place?" asked the Wizard, who had been
examining the strange personage carefully.

"To be sure," said the other. "I am a great inventor, you must know, and
I manufacture my products in this lonely spot."

"What are your products?" enquired the Wizard.

"Well, I make Assorted Flutters for flags and bunting, and a superior
grade of Rustles for ladies' silk gowns."

"I thought so," said the Wizard, with a sigh. "May we examine some of
these articles?"

[Illustration: THE CLOUD FAIRIES.]

[Illustration: THE BRAIDED MAN.]

"Yes, indeed; come into my shop, please," and the braided man turned and
led the way into a smaller cave, where he evidently lived. Here, on a
broad shelf, were several card-board boxes of various sizes, each tied
with cotton cord.

"This," said the man, taking up a box and handling it gently, "contains
twelve dozen rustles--enough to last any lady a year. Will you buy it,
my dear?" he asked, addressing Dorothy.

"My gown isn't silk," she said, smiling.

"Never mind. When you open the box the rustles will escape, whether you
are wearing a silk dress or not," said the man, seriously. Then he
picked up another box. "In this," he continued, "are many assorted
flutters. They are invaluable to make flags flutter on a still day, when
there is no wind. You, sir," turning to the Wizard, "ought to have this
assortment. Once you have tried my goods I am sure you will never be
without them."

"I have no money with me," said the Wizard, evasively.

"I do not want money," returned the braided man, "for I could not spend
it in this deserted place if I had it. But I would like very much a blue
hair-ribbon. You will notice my braids are tied with yellow, pink,
brown, red, green, white and black; but I have no blue ribbons."

"I'll get you one!" cried Dorothy, who was sorry for the poor man; so
she ran back to the buggy and took from her suit-case a pretty blue
ribbon. It did her good to see how the braided man's eyes sparkled when
he received this treasure.

"You have made me very, very happy, my dear!" he exclaimed; and then he
insisted on the Wizard taking the box of flutters and the little girl
accepting the box of rustles.

"You may need them, some time," he said, "and there is really no use in
my manufacturing these things unless somebody uses them."

"Why did you leave the surface of the earth?" enquired the Wizard.

"I could not help it. It is a sad story, but if you will try to restrain
your tears I will tell you about it. On earth I was a manufacturer of
Imported Holes for American Swiss Cheese, and I will acknowledge that I
supplied a superior article, which was in great demand. Also I made
pores for porous plasters and high-grade holes for doughnuts and
buttons. Finally I invented a new Adjustable Post-hole, which I thought
would make my fortune. I manufactured a large quantity of these
post-holes, and having no room in which to store them I set them all end
to end and put the top one in the ground. That made an extraordinary
long hole, as you may imagine, and reached far down into the earth; and,
as I leaned over it to try to see to the bottom, I lost my balance and
tumbled in. Unfortunately, the hole led directly into the vast space you
see outside this mountain; but I managed to catch a point of rock that
projected from this cavern, and so saved myself from tumbling headlong
into the black waves beneath, where the tongues of flame that dart out
would certainly have consumed me. Here, then, I made my home; and
although it is a lonely place I amuse myself making rustles and
flutters, and so get along very nicely."

When the braided man had completed this strange tale Dorothy nearly
laughed, because it was all so absurd; but the Wizard tapped his
forehead significantly, to indicate that he thought the poor man was
crazy. So they politely bade him good day, and went back to the outer
cavern to resume their journey.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 11.

THEY MEET THE WOODEN GARGOYLES


Another breathless climb brought our adventurers to a third landing
where there was a rift in the mountain. On peering out all they could
see was rolling banks of clouds, so thick that they obscured all else.

But the travellers were obliged to rest, and while they were sitting on
the rocky floor the Wizard felt in his pocket and brought out the nine
tiny piglets. To his delight they were now plainly visible, which proved
that they had passed beyond the influence of the magical Valley of Voe.

"Why, we can see each other again!" cried one, joyfully.

"Yes," sighed Eureka; "and I also can see you again, and the sight
makes me dreadfully hungry. Please, Mr. Wizard, may I eat just one of
the fat little piglets? You'd never miss _one_ of them, I'm sure!"

"What a horrid, savage beast!" exclaimed a piglet; "and after we've been
such good friends, too, and played with one another!"

"When I'm not hungry, I love to play with you all," said the kitten,
demurely; "but when my stomach is empty it seems that nothing would fill
it so nicely as a fat piglet."

"And we trusted you so!" said another of the nine, reproachfully.

"And thought you were respectable!" said another.

"It seems we were mistaken," declared a third, looking at the kitten
timorously, "no one with such murderous desires should belong to our
party, I'm sure."

"You see, Eureka," remarked Dorothy, reprovingly, "you are making
yourself disliked. There are certain things proper for a kitten to eat;
but I never heard of a kitten eating a pig, under _any_ cir'stances."

"Did you ever see such little pigs before?" asked the kitten. "They are
no bigger than mice, and I'm sure mice are proper for me to eat."

"It isn't the bigness, dear; its the variety," replied the girl. "These
are Mr. Wizard's pets, just as you are my pet, and it wouldn't be any
more proper for you to eat them than it would be for Jim to eat you."

"And that's just what I shall do if you don't let those little balls of
pork alone," said Jim, glaring at the kitten with his round, big eyes.
"If you injure any one of them I'll chew you up instantly."

The kitten looked at the horse thoughtfully, as if trying to decide
whether he meant it or not.

"In that case," she said, "I'll leave them alone. You haven't many teeth
left, Jim, but the few you have are sharp enough to make me shudder. So
the piglets will be perfectly safe, hereafter, as far as I am
concerned."

"That is right, Eureka," remarked the Wizard, earnestly. "Let us all be
a happy family and love one another."

Eureka yawned and stretched herself.

"I've always loved the piglets," she said; "but they don't love me."

"No one can love a person he's afraid of," asserted Dorothy. "If you
behave, and don't scare the little pigs, I'm sure they'll grow very fond
of you."

The Wizard now put the nine tiny ones back into his pocket and the
journey was resumed.

"We must be pretty near the top, now," said the boy, as they climbed
wearily up the dark, winding stairway.

"The Country of the Gurgles can't be far from the top of the earth,"
remarked Dorothy. "It isn't very nice down here. I'd like to get home
again, I'm sure."

No one replied to this, because they found they needed all their breath
for the climb. The stairs had become narrower and Zeb and the Wizard
often had to help Jim pull the buggy from one step to another, or keep
it from jamming against the rocky walls.

At last, however, a dim light appeared ahead of them, which grew clearer
and stronger as they advanced.

"Thank goodness we're nearly there!" panted the little Wizard.

Jim, who was in advance, saw the last stair before him and stuck his
head above the rocky sides of the stairway. Then he halted, ducked down
and began to back up, so that he nearly fell with the buggy onto the
others.

"Let's go down again!" he said, in his hoarse voice.

"Nonsense!" snapped the tired Wizard. "What's the matter with you, old
man?"

"Everything," grumbled the horse. "I've taken a look at this place, and
it's no fit country for real creatures to go to. Everything's dead, up
there--no flesh or blood or growing thing anywhere."

"Never mind; we can't turn back," said Dorothy; "and we don't intend to
stay there, anyhow."

"It's dangerous," growled Jim, in a stubborn tone.

"See here, my good steed," broke in the Wizard, "little Dorothy and I
have been in many queer countries in our travels, and always escaped
without harm. We've even been to the marvelous Land of Oz--haven't we,
Dorothy?--so we don't much care what the Country of the Gargoyles is
like. Go ahead, Jim, and whatever happens we'll make the best of it."

"All right," answered the horse; "this is your excursion, and not mine;
so if you get into trouble don't blame me."

With this speech he bent forward and dragged the buggy up the remaining
steps. The others followed and soon they were all standing upon a broad
platform and gazing at the most curious and startling sight their eyes
had ever beheld.

"The Country of the Gargoyles is all wooden!" exclaimed Zeb; and so it
was. The ground was sawdust and the pebbles scattered around were hard
knots from trees, worn smooth in course of time. There were odd wooden
houses, with carved wooden flowers in the front yards. The tree-trunks
were of coarse wood, but the leaves of the trees were shavings. The
patches of grass were splinters of wood, and where neither grass nor
sawdust showed was a solid wooden flooring. Wooden birds fluttered
among the trees and wooden cows were browsing upon the wooden grass; but
the most amazing things of all were the wooden people--the creatures
known as Gargoyles.

These were very numerous, for the palace was thickly inhabited, and a
large group of the queer people clustered near, gazing sharply upon the
strangers who had emerged from the long spiral stairway.

The Gargoyles were very small of stature, being less than three feet in
height. Their bodies were round, their legs short and thick and their
arms extraordinarily long and stout. Their heads were too big for their
bodies and their faces were decidedly ugly to look upon. Some had long,
curved noses and chins, small eyes and wide, grinning mouths. Others had
flat noses, protruding eyes, and ears that were shaped like those of an
elephant. There were many types, indeed, scarcely two being alike; but
all were equally disagreeable in appearance. The tops of their heads had
no hair, but were carved into a variety of fantastic shapes, some having
a row of points or balls around the top, other designs resembling
flowers or vegetables, and still others having squares that looked like
waffles cut criss-cross on their heads. They all wore short wooden wings
which were fastened to their wooden bodies by means of wooden hinges
with wooden screws, and with these wings they flew swiftly and
noiselessly here and there, their legs being of little use to them.

This noiseless motion was one of the most peculiar things about the
Gargoyles. They made no sounds at all, either in flying or trying to
speak, and they conversed mainly by means of quick signals made with
their wooden fingers or lips. Neither was there any sound to be heard
anywhere throughout the wooden country. The birds did not sing, nor did
the cows moo; yet there was more than ordinary activity everywhere.

The group of these queer creatures which was discovered clustered near
the stairs at first remained staring and motionless, glaring with evil
eyes at the intruders who had so suddenly appeared in their land. In
turn the Wizard and the children, the horse and the kitten, examined the
Gargoyles with the same silent attention.

"There's going to be trouble, I'm sure," remarked the horse. "Unhitch
those tugs, Zeb, and set me free from the buggy, so I can fight
comfortably."

"Jim's right," sighed the Wizard. "There's going to be trouble, and my
sword isn't stout enough to cut up those wooden bodies--so I shall have
to get out my revolvers."

He got his satchel from the buggy and, opening it, took out two deadly
looking revolvers that made the children shrink back in alarm just to
look at.

"What harm can the Gurgles do?" asked Dorothy. "They have no weapons to
hurt us with."

"Each of their arms is a wooden club," answered the little man, "and I'm
sure the creatures mean mischief, by the looks of their eyes. Even these
revolvers can merely succeed in damaging a few of their wooden bodies,
and after that we will be at their mercy."

"But why fight at all, in that case?" asked the girl.

"So I may die with a clear conscience," returned the Wizard, gravely.
"It's every man's duty to do the best he knows how; and I'm going to do
it."

"Wish I had an axe," said Zeb, who by now had unhitched the horse.

"If we had known we were coming we might have brought along several
other useful things," responded the Wizard. "But we dropped into this
adventure rather unexpectedly."

The Gargoyles had backed away a distance when they heard the sound of
talking, for although our friends had spoken in low tones their words
seemed loud in the silence surrounding them. But as soon as the
conversation ceased the grinning, ugly creatures arose in a flock and
flew swiftly toward the strangers, their long arms stretched out before
them like the bowsprits of a fleet of sail-boats. The horse had
especially attracted their notice, because it was the biggest and
strangest creature they had ever seen; so it became the center of their
first attack.

But Jim was ready for them, and when he saw them coming he turned his
heels toward them and began kicking out as hard as he could. Crack!
crash! bang! went his iron-shod hoofs against the wooden bodies of the
Gargoyles, and they were battered right and left with such force that
they scattered like straws in the wind. But the noise and clatter seemed
as dreadful to them as Jim's heels, for all who were able swiftly turned
and flew away to a great distance. The others picked themselves up from
the ground one by one and quickly rejoined their fellows, so for a
moment the horse thought he had won the fight with ease.

But the Wizard was not so confident.

"Those wooden things are impossible to hurt," he said, "and all the
damage Jim has done to them is to knock a few splinters from their noses
and ears. That cannot make them look any uglier, I'm sure, and it is my
opinion they will soon renew the attack."

"What made them fly away?" asked Dorothy.

"The noise, of course. Don't you remember how the Champion escaped them
by shouting his battle-cry?"

"Suppose we escape down the stairs, too," suggested the boy. "We have
time, just now, and I'd rather face the invis'ble bears than those
wooden imps."

"No," returned Dorothy, stoutly, "it won't do to go back, for then we
would never get home. Let's fight it out."

"That is what I advise," said the Wizard. "They haven't defeated us yet,
and Jim is worth a whole army."

But the Gargoyles were clever enough not to attack the horse the next
time. They advanced in a great swarm, having been joined by many more of
their kind, and they flew straight over Jim's head to where the others
were standing.

The Wizard raised one of his revolvers and fired into the throng of his
enemies, and the shot resounded like a clap of thunder in that silent
place.

Some of the wooden beings fell flat upon the ground, where they quivered
and trembled in every limb; but most of them managed to wheel and escape
again to a distance.

Zeb ran and picked up one of the Gargoyles that lay nearest to him. The
top of its head was carved into a crown and the Wizard's bullet had
struck it exactly in the left eye, which was a hard wooden knot. Half of
the bullet stuck in the wood and half stuck out, so it had been the jar
and the sudden noise that had knocked the creature down, more than the
fact that it was really hurt. Before this crowned Gargoyle had recovered
himself Zeb had wound a strap several times around its body, confining
its wings and arms so that it could not move. Then, having tied the
wooden creature securely, the boy buckled the strap and tossed his
prisoner into the buggy. By that time the others had all retired.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 12.

A WONDERFUL ESCAPE


For a while the enemy hesitated to renew the attack. Then a few of them
advanced until another shot from the Wizard's revolver made them
retreat.

"That's fine," said Zeb. "We've got 'em on the run now, sure enough."

"But only for a time," replied the Wizard, shaking his head gloomily.
"These revolvers are good for six shots each, but when those are gone we
shall be helpless."

The Gargoyles seemed to realize this, for they sent a few of their band
time after time to attack the strangers and draw the fire from the
little man's revolvers. In this way none of them was shocked by the
dreadful report more than once, for the main band kept far away and
each time a new company was sent into the battle. When the Wizard had
fired all of his twelve bullets he had caused no damage to the enemy
except to stun a few by the noise, and so he was no nearer to victory
than in the beginning of the fray.

[Illustration: THE WIZARD FIRED INTO THE THRONG.]

"What shall we do now?" asked Dorothy, anxiously.

"Let's yell--all together," said Zeb.

"And fight at the same time," added the Wizard. "We will get near Jim,
so that he can help us, and each one must take some weapon and do the
best he can. I'll use my sword, although it isn't much account in this
affair. Dorothy must take her parasol and open it suddenly when the
wooden folks attack her. I haven't anything for you, Zeb."

"I'll use the king," said the boy, and pulled his prisoner out of the
buggy. The bound Gargoyle's arms extended far out beyond its head, so by
grasping its wrists Zeb found the king made a very good club. The boy
was strong for one of his years, having always worked upon a farm; so he
was likely to prove more dangerous to the enemy than the Wizard.

When the next company of Gargoyles advanced, our adventurers began
yelling as if they had gone mad. Even the kitten gave a dreadfully
shrill scream and at the same time Jim the cab-horse neighed loudly.
This daunted the enemy for a time, but the defenders were soon out of
breath. Perceiving this, as well as the fact that there were no more of
the awful "bangs" to come from the revolvers, the Gargoyles advanced in
a swarm as thick as bees, so that the air was filled with them.

Dorothy squatted upon the ground and put up her parasol, which nearly
covered her and proved a great protection. The Wizard's sword-blade
snapped into a dozen pieces at the first blow he struck against the
wooden people. Zeb pounded away with the Gargoyle he was using as a club
until he had knocked down dozens of foes; but at the last they clustered
so thickly about him that he no longer had room in which to swing his
arms. The horse performed some wonderful kicking and even Eureka
assisted when she leaped bodily upon the Gargoyles and scratched and bit
at them like a wild-cat.

But all this bravery amounted to nothing at all. The wooden things wound
their long arms around Zeb and the Wizard and held them fast. Dorothy
was captured in the same way, and numbers of the Gargoyles clung to
Jim's legs, so weighting him down that the poor beast was helpless.
Eureka made a desperate dash to escape and scampered along the ground
like a streak; but a grinning Gargoyle flew after her and grabbed her
before she had gone very far.

All of them expected nothing less than instant death; but to their
surprise the wooden creatures flew into the air with them and bore them
far away, over miles and miles of wooden country, until they came to a
wooden city. The houses of this city had many corners, being square and
six-sided and eight-sided. They were tower-like in shape and the best of
them seemed old and weather-worn; yet all were strong and substantial.

To one of these houses which had neither doors nor windows, but only one
broad opening far up underneath the roof, the prisoners were brought by
their captors. The Gargoyles roughly pushed them into the opening, where
there was a platform, and then flew away and left them. As they had no
wings the strangers could not fly away, and if they jumped down from
such a height they would surely be killed. The creatures had sense
enough to reason that way, and the only mistake they made was in
supposing the earth people were unable to overcome such ordinary
difficulties.

Jim was brought with the others, although it took a good many Gargoyles
to carry the big beast through the air and land him on the high
platform, and the buggy was thrust in after him because it belonged to
the party and the wooden folks had no idea what it was used for or
whether it was alive or not. When Eureka's captor had thrown the kitten
after the others the last Gargoyle silently disappeared, leaving our
friends to breathe freely once more.

"What an awful fight!" said Dorothy, catching her breath in little
gasps.

"Oh, I don't know," purred Eureka, smoothing her ruffled fur with her
paw; "we didn't manage to hurt anybody, and nobody managed to hurt us."

"Thank goodness we are together again, even if we are prisoners," sighed
the little girl.

"I wonder why they didn't kill us on the spot," remarked Zeb, who had
lost his king in the struggle.

"They are probably keeping us for some ceremony," the Wizard answered,
reflectively; "but there is no doubt they intend to kill us as dead as
possible in a short time."

"As dead as poss'ble would be pretty dead, wouldn't it?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes, my dear. But we have no need to worry about that just now. Let us
examine our prison and see what it is like."

The space underneath the roof, where they stood, permitted them to see
on all sides of the tall building, and they looked with much curiosity
at the city spread out beneath them. Everything visible was made of
wood, and the scene seemed stiff and extremely unnatural.

From their platform a stair descended into the house, and the children
and the Wizard explored it after lighting a lantern to show them the
way. Several stories of empty rooms rewarded their search, but nothing
more; so after a time they came back to the platform again. Had there
been any doors or windows in the lower rooms, or had not the boards of
the house been so thick and stout, escape would have been easy; but to
remain down below was like being in a cellar or the hold of a ship, and
they did not like the darkness or the damp smell.

In this country, as in all others they had visited underneath the
earth's surface, there was no night, a constant and strong light coming
from some unknown source. Looking out, they could see into some of the
houses near them, where there were open windows in abundance, and were
able to mark the forms of the wooden Gargoyles moving about in their
dwellings.

"This seems to be their time of rest," observed the Wizard. "All people
need rest, even if they are made of wood, and as there is no night here
they select a certain time of the day in which to sleep or doze."

"I feel sleepy myself," remarked Zeb, yawning.

"Why, where's Eureka?" cried Dorothy, suddenly.

They all looked around, but the kitten was no place to be seen.

"She's gone out for a walk," said Jim, gruffly.

"Where? On the roof?" asked the girl.

"No; she just dug her claws into the wood and climbed down the sides of
this house to the ground."

"She couldn't climb _down_, Jim," said Dorothy. "To climb means to go
up."

"Who said so?" demanded the horse.

"My school-teacher said so; and she knows a lot, Jim."

"To 'climb down' is sometimes used as a figure of speech," remarked the
Wizard.

"Well, this was a figure of a cat," said Jim, "and she _went_ down,
anyhow, whether she climbed or crept."

"Dear me! how careless Eureka is," exclaimed the girl, much distressed.
"The Gurgles will get her, sure!"

"Ha, ha!" chuckled the old cab-horse; "they're not 'Gurgles,' little
maid; they're Gargoyles."

"Never mind; they'll get Eureka, whatever they're called."

"No they won't," said the voice of the kitten, and Eureka herself
crawled over the edge of the platform and sat down quietly upon the
floor.

"Wherever have you been, Eureka?" asked Dorothy, sternly.

"Watching the wooden folks. They're too funny for anything, Dorothy.
Just now they are all going to bed, and--what do you think?--they unhook
the hinges of their wings and put them in a corner until they wake up
again."

"What, the hinges?"

"No; the wings."

"That," said Zeb, "explains why this house is used by them for a prison.
If any of the Gargoyles act badly, and have to be put in jail, they are
brought here and their wings unhooked and taken away from them until
they promise to be good."

The Wizard had listened intently to what Eureka had said.

"I wish we had some of those loose wings," he said.

"Could we fly with them?" asked Dorothy.

"I think so. If the Gargoyles can unhook the wings then the power to fly
lies in the wings themselves, and not in the wooden bodies of the people
who wear them. So, if we had the wings, we could probably fly as well as
they do--at least while we are in their country and under the spell of
its magic."

"But how would it help us to be able to fly?" questioned the girl.

"Come here," said the little man, and took her to one of the corners of
the building. "Do you see that big rock standing on the hillside
yonder?" he continued, pointing with his finger.

"Yes; it's a good way off, but I can see it," she replied.

"Well, inside that rock, which reaches up into the clouds, is an archway
very much like the one we entered when we climbed the spiral stairway
from the Valley of Voe. I'll get my spy-glass, and then you can see it
more plainly."

He fetched a small but powerful telescope, which had been in his
satchel, and by its aid the little girl clearly saw the opening.

"Where does it lead to?" she asked.

"That I cannot tell," said the Wizard; "but we cannot now be far below
the earth's surface, and that entrance may lead to another stairway that
will bring us on top of our world again, where we belong. So, if we had
the wings, and could escape the Gargoyles, we might fly to that rock and
be saved."

"I'll get you the wings," said Zeb, who had thoughtfully listened to all
this. "That is, if the kitten will show me where they are."

"But how can you get down?" enquired the girl, wonderingly.

For answer Zeb began to unfasten Jim's harness, strap by strap, and
to buckle one piece to another until he had made a long leather strip
that would reach to the ground.

[Illustration: THE FIGHT WITH THE GARGOYLES.]

"I can climb down that, all right," he said.

"No you can't," remarked Jim, with a twinkle in his round eyes. "You may
_go_ down, but you can only _climb_ up."

"Well, I'll climb up when I get back, then," said the boy, with a laugh.
"Now, Eureka, you'll have to show me the way to those wings."

"You must be very quiet," warned the kitten; "for if you make the least
noise the Gargoyles will wake up. They can hear a pin drop."

"I'm not going to drop a pin," said Zeb.

He had fastened one end of the strap to a wheel of the buggy, and now he
let the line dangle over the side of the house.

"Be careful," cautioned Dorothy, earnestly.

"I will," said the boy, and let himself slide over the edge.

The girl and the Wizard leaned over and watched Zeb work his way
carefully downward, hand over hand, until he stood upon the ground
below. Eureka clung with her claws to the wooden side of the house and
let herself down easily. Then together they crept away to enter the low
doorway of a neighboring dwelling.

The watchers waited in breathless suspense until the boy again appeared,
his arms now full of the wooden wings.

When he came to where the strap was hanging he tied the wings all in a
bunch to the end of the line, and the Wizard drew them up. Then the line
was let down again for Zeb to climb up by. Eureka quickly followed him,
and soon they were all standing together upon the platform, with eight
of the much prized wooden wings beside them.

The boy was no longer sleepy, but full of energy and excitement. He put
the harness together again and hitched Jim to the buggy. Then, with the
Wizard's help, he tried to fasten some of the wings to the old
cab-horse.

This was no easy task, because half of each one of the hinges of the
wings was missing, it being still fastened to the body of the Gargoyle
who had used it. However, the Wizard went once more to his
satchel--which seemed to contain a surprising variety of odds and
ends--and brought out a spool of strong wire, by means of which they
managed to fasten four of the wings to Jim's harness, two near his head
and two near his tail. They were a bit wiggley, but secure enough if
only the harness held together.

The other four wings were then fastened to the buggy, two on each side,
for the buggy must bear the weight of the children and the Wizard as it
flew through the air.

[Illustration: JIM FLUTTERED AND FLOUNDERED THROUGH THE AIR.]

These preparations had not consumed a great deal of time, but the
sleeping Gargoyles were beginning to wake up and move around, and soon
some of them would be hunting for their missing wings. So the prisoners
resolved to leave their prison at once.

They mounted into the buggy, Dorothy holding Eureka safe in her lap. The
girl sat in the middle of the seat, with Zeb and the Wizard on each side
of her. When all was ready the boy shook the reins and said:

"Fly away, Jim!"

"Which wings must I flop first?" asked the cab-horse, undecidedly.

"Flop them all together," suggested the Wizard.

"Some of them are crooked," objected the horse.

"Never mind; we will steer with the wings on the buggy," said Zeb. "Just
you light out and make for that rock, Jim; and don't waste any time
about it, either."

So the horse gave a groan, flopped its four wings all together, and flew
away from the platform. Dorothy was a little anxious about the success
of their trip, for the way Jim arched his long neck and spread out his
bony legs as he fluttered and floundered through the air was enough to
make anybody nervous. He groaned, too, as if frightened, and the wings
creaked dreadfully because the Wizard had forgotten to oil them; but
they kept fairly good time with the wings of the buggy, so that they
made excellent progress from the start. The only thing that anyone could
complain of with justice was the fact that they wobbled first up and
then down, as if the road were rocky instead of being as smooth as the
air could make it.

The main point, however, was that they flew, and flew swiftly, if a bit
unevenly, toward the rock for which they had headed.

Some of the Gargoyles saw them, presently, and lost no time in
collecting a band to pursue the escaping prisoners; so that when Dorothy
happened to look back she saw them coming in a great cloud that almost
darkened the sky.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 13.

THE DEN OF THE DRAGONETTES


Our friends had a good start and were able to maintain it, for with
their eight wings they could go just as fast as could the Gargoyles. All
the way to the great rock the wooden people followed them, and when Jim
finally alighted at the mouth of the cavern the pursuers were still some
distance away.

"But, I'm afraid they'll catch us yet," said Dorothy, greatly excited.

"No; we must stop them," declared the Wizard. "Quick Zeb, help me pull
off these wooden wings!"

They tore off the wings, for which they had no further use, and the
Wizard piled them in a heap just outside the entrance to the cavern.
Then he poured over them all the kerosene oil that was left in his
oil-can, and lighting a match set fire to the pile.

The flames leaped up at once and the bonfire began to smoke and roar and
crackle just as the great army of wooden Gargoyles arrived. The
creatures drew back at once, being filled with fear and horror; for such
a dreadful thing as a fire they had never before known in all the
history of their wooden land.

Inside the archway were several doors, leading to different rooms built
into the mountain, and Zeb and the Wizard lifted these wooden doors from
their hinges and tossed them all on the flames.

"That will prove a barrier for some time to come," said the little man,
smiling pleasantly all over his wrinkled face at the success of their
stratagem. "Perhaps the flames will set fire to all that miserable
wooden country, and if it does the loss will be very small and the
Gargoyles never will be missed. But come, my children; let us explore
the mountain and discover which way we must go in order to escape from
this cavern, which is getting to be almost as hot as a bake-oven."

To their disappointment there was within this mountain no regular flight
of steps by means of which they could mount to the earth's surface. A
sort of inclined tunnel led upward for a way, and they found the floor
of it both rough and steep. Then a sudden turn brought them to a narrow
gallery where the buggy could not pass. This delayed and bothered them
for a while, because they did not wish to leave the buggy behind them.
It carried their baggage and was useful to ride in wherever there were
good roads, and since it had accompanied them so far in their travels
they felt it their duty to preserve it. So Zeb and the Wizard set to
work and took off the wheels and the top, and then they put the buggy
edgewise, so it would take up the smallest space. In this position they
managed, with the aid of the patient cab-horse, to drag the vehicle
through the narrow part of the passage. It was not a great distance,
fortunately, and when the path grew broader they put the buggy together
again and proceeded more comfortably. But the road was nothing more than
a series of rifts or cracks in the mountain, and it went zig-zag in
every direction, slanting first up and then down until they were puzzled
as to whether they were any nearer to the top of the earth than when
they had started, hours before.

"Anyhow," said Dorothy, "we've 'scaped those awful Gurgles, and that's
_one_ comfort!"

[Illustration: "WHY IT'S A DRAGON!"]

"Probably the Gargoyles are still busy trying to put out the fire,"
returned the Wizard. "But even if they succeeded in doing that it
would be very difficult for them to fly amongst these rocks; so I am
sure we need fear them no longer."

Once in a while they would come to a deep crack in the floor, which made
the way quite dangerous; but there was still enough oil in the lanterns
to give them light, and the cracks were not so wide but that they were
able to jump over them. Sometimes they had to climb over heaps of loose
rock, where Jim could scarcely drag the buggy. At such times Dorothy,
Zeb and the Wizard all pushed behind, and lifted the wheels over the
roughest places; so they managed, by dint of hard work, to keep going.
But the little party was both weary and discouraged when at last, on
turning a sharp corner, the wanderers found themselves in a vast cave
arching high over their heads and having a smooth, level floor.

The cave was circular in shape, and all around its edge, near to the
ground, appeared groups of dull yellow lights, two of them being always
side by side. These were motionless at first, but soon began to flicker
more brightly and to sway slowly from side to side and then up and down.

"What sort of a place is this?" asked the boy, trying to see more
clearly through the gloom.

"I cannot imagine, I'm sure," answered the Wizard, also peering about.

"Woogh!" snarled Eureka, arching her back until her hair stood straight
on end; "it's a den of alligators, or crocodiles, or some other dreadful
creatures! Don't you see their terrible eyes?"

"Eureka sees better in the dark than we can," whispered Dorothy. "Tell
us, dear, what do the creatures look like?" she asked, addressing her
pet.

"I simply can't describe 'em," answered the kitten, shuddering. "Their
eyes are like pie-plates and their mouths like coal-scuttles. But their
bodies don't seem very big."

"Where are they?" enquired the girl.

"They are in little pockets all around the edge of this cavern. Oh,
Dorothy--you can't imagine what horrid things they are! They're uglier
than the Gargoyles."

"Tut-tut! be careful how you criticise your neighbors," spoke a rasping
voice near by. "As a matter of fact you are rather ugly-looking
creatures yourselves, and I'm sure mother has often told us we were the
loveliest and prettiest things in all the world."

Hearing these words our friends turned in the direction of the sound,
and the Wizard held his lanterns so that their light would flood one of
the little pockets in the rock.

"Why, it's a dragon!" he exclaimed.

"No," answered the owner of the big yellow eyes which were blinking at
them so steadily; "you are wrong about that. We hope to grow to be
dragons some day, but just now we're only dragonettes."

"What's that?" asked Dorothy, gazing fearfully at the great scaley head,
the yawning mouth and the big eyes.

"Young dragons, of course; but we are not allowed to call ourselves real
dragons until we get our full growth," was the reply. "The big dragons
are very proud, and don't think children amount to much; but mother says
that some day we will all be very powerful and important."

"Where is your mother?" asked the Wizard, anxiously looking around.

"She has gone up to the top of the earth to hunt for our dinner. If she
has good luck she will bring us an elephant, or a brace of rhinoceri, or
perhaps a few dozen people to stay our hunger."

"Oh; are you hungry?" enquired Dorothy, drawing back.

"Very," said the dragonette, snapping its jaws.

"And--and--do you eat people?"

"To be sure, when we can get them. But they've been very scarce for a
few years and we usually have to be content with elephants or
buffaloes," answered the creature, in a regretful tone.

"How old are you?" enquired Zeb, who stared at the yellow eyes as if
fascinated.

"Quite young, I grieve to say; and all of my brothers and sisters that
you see here are practically my own age. If I remember rightly, we were
sixty-six years old the day before yesterday."

"But that isn't young!" cried Dorothy, in amazement.

"No?" drawled the dragonette; "it seems to me very babyish."

"How old is your mother?" asked the girl.

"Mother's about two thousand years old; but she carelessly lost track of
her age a few centuries ago and skipped several hundreds. She's a little
fussy, you know, and afraid of growing old, being a widow and still in
her prime."

"I should think she would be," agreed Dorothy. Then, after a moment's
thought, she asked: "Are we friends or enemies? I mean, will you be good
to us, or do you intend to eat us?"

"As for that, we dragonettes would love to eat you, my child; but
unfortunately mother has tied all our tails around the rocks at the back
of our individual caves, so that we can not crawl out to get you. If you
choose to come nearer we will make a mouthful of you in a wink; but
unless you do you will remain quite safe."

There was a regretful accent in the creature's voice, and at the words
all the other dragonettes sighed dismally.

Dorothy felt relieved. Presently she asked:

"Why did your mother tie your tails?"

"Oh, she is sometimes gone for several weeks on her hunting trips, and
if we were not tied we would crawl all over the mountain and fight with
each other and get into a lot of mischief. Mother usually knows what she
is about, but she made a mistake this time; for you are sure to escape
us unless you come too near, and you probably won't do that."

"No, indeed!" said the little girl. "We don't wish to be eaten by such
awful beasts."

"Permit me to say," returned the dragonette, "that you are rather
impolite to call us names, knowing that we cannot resent your insults.
We consider ourselves very beautiful in appearance, for mother has told
us so, and she knows. And we are of an excellent family and have a
pedigree that I challenge any humans to equal, as it extends back about
twenty thousand years, to the time of the famous Green Dragon of
Atlantis, who lived in a time when humans had not yet been created. Can
you match that pedigree, little girl?"

"Well," said Dorothy, "I was born on a farm in Kansas, and I guess
that's being just as 'spectable and haughty as living in a cave with
your tail tied to a rock. If it isn't I'll have to stand it, that's
all."

"Tastes differ," murmured the dragonette, slowly drooping its scaley
eyelids over its yellow eyes, until they looked like half-moons.

Being reassured by the fact that the creatures could not crawl out of
their rock-pockets, the children and the Wizard now took time to examine
them more closely. The heads of the dragonettes were as big as barrels
and covered with hard, greenish scales that glittered brightly under the
light of the lanterns. Their front legs, which grew just back of their
heads, were also strong and big; but their bodies were smaller around
than their heads, and dwindled away in a long line until their tails
were slim as a shoe-string. Dorothy thought, if it had taken them
sixty-six years to grow to this size, that it would be fully a hundred
years more before they could hope to call themselves dragons, and that
seemed like a good while to wait to grow up.

"It occurs to me," said the Wizard, "that we ought to get out of this
place before the mother dragon comes back."

"Don't hurry," called one of the dragonettes; "mother will be glad to
meet you, I'm sure."

"You may be right," replied the Wizard, "but we're a little particular
about associating with strangers. Will you kindly tell us which way your
mother went to get on top the earth?"

"That is not a fair question to ask us," declared another dragonette.
"For, if we told you truly, you might escape us altogether; and if we
told you an untruth we would be naughty and deserve to be punished."

"Then," decided Dorothy, "we must find our way out the best we can."

They circled all around the cavern, keeping a good distance away from
the blinking yellow eyes of the dragonettes, and presently discovered
that there were two paths leading from the wall opposite to the place
where they had entered. They selected one of these at a venture and
hurried along it as fast as they could go, for they had no idea when the
mother dragon would be back and were very anxious not to make her
acquaintance.

[Illustration]




Chapter 14.

OZMA USES THE MAGIC BELT


For a considerable distance the way led straight upward in a gentle
incline, and the wanderers made such good progress that they grew
hopeful and eager, thinking they might see sunshine at any minute. But
at length they came unexpectedly upon a huge rock that shut off the
passage and blocked them from proceeding a single step farther.

This rock was separate from the rest of the mountain and was in motion,
turning slowly around and around as if upon a pivot. When first they
came to it there was a solid wall before them; but presently it revolved
until there was exposed a wide, smooth path across it to the other side.
This appeared so unexpectedly that they were unprepared to take
advantage of it at first, and allowed the rocky wall to swing around
again before they had decided to pass over. But they knew now that there
was a means of escape and so waited patiently until the path appeared
for the second time.

The children and the Wizard rushed across the moving rock and sprang
into the passage beyond, landing safely though a little out of breath.
Jim the cab-horse came last, and the rocky wall almost caught him; for
just as he leaped to the floor of the further passage the wall swung
across it and a loose stone that the buggy wheels knocked against fell
into the narrow crack where the rock turned, and became wedged there.

They heard a crunching, grinding sound, a loud snap, and the turn-table
came to a stop with its broadest surface shutting off the path from
which they had come.

"Never mind," said Zeb, "we don't want to get back, anyhow."

"I'm not so sure of that," returned Dorothy. "The mother dragon may come
down and catch us here."

"It is possible," agreed the Wizard, "if this proves to be the path she
usually takes. But I have been examining this tunnel, and I do not see
any signs of so large a beast having passed through it."

"Then we're all right," said the girl, "for if the dragon went the other
way she can't poss'bly get to us now."

"Of course not, my dear. But there is another thing to consider. The
mother dragon probably knows the road to the earth's surface, and if she
went the other way then we have come the wrong way," said the Wizard,
thoughtfully.

"Dear me!" cried Dorothy. "That would be unlucky, wouldn't it?"

"Very. Unless this passage also leads to the top of the earth," said
Zeb. "For my part, if we manage to get out of here I'll be glad it isn't
the way the dragon goes."

"So will I," returned Dorothy. "It's enough to have your pedigree flung
in your face by those saucy dragonettes. No one knows what the mother
might do."

They now moved on again, creeping slowly up another steep incline. The
lanterns were beginning to grow dim, and the Wizard poured the remaining
oil from one into the other, so that the one light would last longer.
But their journey was almost over, for in a short time they reached a
small cave from which there was no further outlet.

They did not realize their ill fortune at first, for their hearts were
gladdened by the sight of a ray of sunshine coming through a small crack
in the roof of the cave, far overhead. That meant that their world--the
real world--was not very far away, and that the succession of perilous
adventures they had encountered had at last brought them near the
earth's surface, which meant home to them. But when the adventurers
looked more carefully around them they discovered that they were in a
strong prison from which there was no hope of escape.

"But we're _almost_ on earth again," cried Dorothy, "for there is the
sun--the most _beau'ful_ sun that shines!" and she pointed eagerly at
the crack in the distant roof.

"Almost on earth isn't being there," said the kitten, in a discontented
tone. "It wouldn't be possible for even me to get up to that crack--or
through it if I got there."

"It appears that the path ends here," announced the Wizard, gloomily.

"And there is no way to go back," added Zeb, with a low whistle of
perplexity.

"I was sure it would come to this, in the end," remarked the old
cab-horse. "Folks don't fall into the middle of the earth and then get
back again to tell of their adventures--not in real life. And the whole
thing has been unnatural because that cat and I are both able to talk
your language, and to understand the words you say."

"And so can the nine tiny piglets," added Eureka. "Don't forget them,
for I may have to eat them, after all."

"I've heard animals talk before," said Dorothy, "and no harm came of
it."

"Were you ever before shut up in a cave, far under the earth, with no
way of getting out?" enquired the horse, seriously.

"No," answered Dorothy. "But don't you lose heart, Jim, for I'm sure
this isn't the end of our story, by any means."

The reference to the piglets reminded the Wizard that his pets had not
enjoyed much exercise lately, and must be tired of their prison in his
pocket. So he sat down upon the floor of the cave, brought the piglets
out one by one, and allowed them to run around as much as they pleased.

"My dears," he said to them, "I'm afraid I've got you into a lot of
trouble, and that you will never again be able to leave this gloomy
cave."

"What's wrong?" asked a piglet. "We've been in the dark quite a while,
and you may as well explain what has happened."

The Wizard told them of the misfortune that had overtaken the wanderers.

"Well," said another piglet, "you are a wizard, are you not?"

"I am," replied the little man.

"Then you can do a few wizzes and get us out of this hole," declared the
tiny one, with much confidence.

"I could if I happened to be a real wizard," returned the master sadly.
"But I'm not, my piggy-wees; I'm a humbug wizard."

"Nonsense!" cried several of the piglets, together.

"You can ask Dorothy," said the little man, in an injured tone.

"It's true enough," returned the girl, earnestly. "Our friend Oz is
merely a humbug wizard, for he once proved it to me. He can do several
very wonderful things--if he knows how. But he can't wiz a single thing
if he hasn't the tools and machinery to work with."

"Thank you, my dear, for doing me justice," responded the Wizard,
gratefully. "To be accused of being a real wizard, when I'm not, is a
slander I will not tamely submit to. But I am one of the greatest humbug
wizards that ever lived, and you will realize this when we have all
starved together and our bones are scattered over the floor of this
lonely cave."

"I don't believe we'll realize anything, when it comes to that,"
remarked Dorothy, who had been deep in thought. "But I'm not going to
scatter my bones just yet, because I need them, and you prob'ly need
yours, too."

"We are helpless to escape," sighed the Wizard.

"_We_ may be helpless," answered Dorothy, smiling at him, "but there are
others who can do more than we can. Cheer up, friends. I'm sure Ozma
will help us."

"Ozma!" exclaimed the Wizard. "Who is Ozma?"

"The girl that rules the marvelous Land of Oz," was the reply. "She's a
friend of mine, for I met her in the Land of Ev, not long ago, and went
to Oz with her."

"For the second time?" asked the Wizard, with great interest.

"Yes. The first time I went to Oz I found you there, ruling the Emerald
City. After you went up in a balloon, and escaped us, I got back to
Kansas by means of a pair of magical silver shoes."

"I remember those shoes," said the little man, nodding. "They once
belonged to the Wicked Witch. Have you them here with you?"

"No; I lost them somewhere in the air," explained the child. "But the
second time I went to the Land of Oz I owned the Nome King's Magic Belt,
which is much more powerful than were the Silver Shoes."

"Where is that Magic Belt?" enquired the Wizard, who had listened with
great interest.

"Ozma has it; for its powers won't work in a common, ordinary country
like the United States. Anyone in a fairy country like the Land of Oz
can do anything with it; so I left it with my friend the Princess Ozma,
who used it to wish me in Australia with Uncle Henry."

"And were you?" asked Zeb, astonished at what he heard.

"Of course; in just a jiffy. And Ozma has an enchanted picture hanging
in her room that shows her the exact scene where any of her friends may
be, at any time she chooses. All she has to do is to say: 'I wonder what
So-and-so is doing,' and at once the picture shows where her friend is
and what the friend is doing. That's _real_ magic, Mr. Wizard; isn't it?
Well, every day at four o'clock Ozma has promised to look at me in that
picture, and if I am in need of help I am to make her a certain sign and
she will put on the Nome King's Magic Belt and wish me to be with her in
Oz."

"Do you mean that Princess Ozma will see this cave in her enchanted
picture, and see all of us here, and what we are doing?" demanded Zeb.

"Of course; when it is four o'clock," she replied, with a laugh at his
startled expression.

"And when you make a sign she will bring you to her in the Land of Oz?"
continued the boy.

"That's it, exactly; by means of the Magic Belt."

"Then," said the Wizard, "you will be saved, little Dorothy; and I am
very glad of it. The rest of us will die much more cheerfully when we
know you have escaped our sad fate."

"_I_ won't die cheerfully!" protested the kitten. "There's nothing
cheerful about dying that I could ever see, although they say a cat has
nine lives, and so must die nine times."

"Have you ever died yet?" enquired the boy.

"No, and I'm not anxious to begin," said Eureka.

"Don't worry, dear," Dorothy exclaimed, "I'll hold you in my arms, and
take you with me."

"Take us, too!" cried the nine tiny piglets, all in one breath.

"Perhaps I can," answered Dorothy. "I'll try."

"Couldn't you manage to hold me in your arms?" asked the cab-horse.

Dorothy laughed.

"I'll do better than that," she promised, "for I can easily save you
all, once I am myself in the Land of Oz."

"How?" they asked.

"By using the Magic Belt. All I need do is to wish you with me, and
there you'll be--safe in the royal palace!"

"Good!" cried Zeb.

"I built that palace, and the Emerald City, too," remarked the Wizard,
in a thoughtful tone, "and I'd like to see them again, for I was very
happy among the Munchkins and Winkies and Quadlings and Gillikins."

"Who are they?" asked the boy.

"The four nations that inhabit the Land of Oz," was the reply. "I wonder
if they would treat me nicely if I went there again."

"Of course they would!" declared Dorothy. "They are still proud of their
former Wizard, and often speak of you kindly."

"Do you happen to know whatever became of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow?" he enquired.

"They live in Oz yet," said the girl, "and are very important people."

"And the Cowardly Lion?"

"Oh, he lives there too, with his friend the Hungry Tiger; and Billina
is there, because she liked the place better than Kansas, and wouldn't
go with me to Australia."

"I'm afraid I don't know the Hungry Tiger and Billina," said the Wizard,
shaking his head. "Is Billina a girl?"

"No; she's a yellow hen, and a great friend of mine. You're sure to like
Billina, when you know her," asserted Dorothy.

"Your friends sound like a menagerie," remarked Zeb, uneasily.
"Couldn't you wish me in some safer place than Oz."

"Don't worry," replied the girl. "You'll just love the folks in Oz, when
you get acquainted. What time is it, Mr. Wizard?"

The little man looked at his watch--a big silver one that he carried in
his vest pocket.

"Half-past three," he said.

"Then we must wait for half an hour," she continued; "but it won't take
long, after that, to carry us all to the Emerald City."

They sat silently thinking for a time. Then Jim suddenly asked:

"Are there any horses in Oz?"

"Only one," replied Dorothy, "and he's a sawhorse."

"A what?"

"A sawhorse. Princess Ozma once brought him to life with a witch-powder,
when she was a boy."

"Was Ozma once a boy?" asked Zeb, wonderingly.

"Yes; a wicked witch enchanted her, so she could not rule her kingdom.
But she's a girl now, and the sweetest, loveliest girl in all the
world."

"A sawhorse is a thing they saw boards on," remarked Jim, with a sniff.

"It is when it's not alive," acknowledged the girl. "But this sawhorse
can trot as fast as you can, Jim; and he's very wise, too."

"Pah! I'll race the miserable wooden donkey any day in the week!" cried
the cab-horse.

Dorothy did not reply to that. She felt that Jim would know more about
the Saw-Horse later on.

The time dragged wearily enough to the eager watchers, but finally the
Wizard announced that four o'clock had arrived, and Dorothy caught up
the kitten and began to make the signal that had been agreed upon to the
far-away, invisible Ozma.

"Nothing seems to happen," said Zeb, doubtfully.

"Oh, we must give Ozma time to put on the Magic Belt," replied the girl.

She had scarcely spoken the words when she suddenly disappeared from the
cave, and with her went the kitten. There had been no sound of any kind
and no warning. One moment Dorothy sat beside them with the kitten in
her lap, and a moment later the horse, the piglets, the Wizard and the
boy were all that remained in the underground prison.

[Illustration: DOROTHY MADE THE SIGNAL.]

"I believe we will soon follow her," announced the Wizard, in a tone of
great relief; "for I know something about the magic of the fairyland
that is called the Land of Oz. Let us be ready, for we may be sent for
any minute."

He put the piglets safely away in his pocket again and then he and Zeb
got into the buggy and sat expectantly upon the seat.

"Will it hurt?" asked the boy, in a voice that trembled a little.

"Not at all," replied the Wizard. "It will all happen as quick as a
wink."

And that was the way it did happen.

The cab-horse gave a nervous start and Zeb began to rub his eyes to make
sure he was not asleep. For they were in the streets of a beautiful
emerald-green city, bathed in a grateful green light that was especially
pleasing to their eyes, and surrounded by merry faced people in gorgeous
green-and-gold costumes of many extraordinary designs.

Before them were the jewel-studded gates of a magnificent palace, and
now the gates opened slowly as if inviting them to enter the courtyard,
where splendid flowers were blooming and pretty fountains shot their
silvery sprays into the air.

Zeb shook the reins to rouse the cab-horse from his stupor of amazement,
for the people were beginning to gather around and stare at the
strangers.

"Gid-dap!" cried the boy, and at the word Jim slowly trotted into the
courtyard and drew the buggy along the jewelled driveway to the great
entrance of the royal palace.

[Illustration]



CHAPTER 15.

OLD FRIENDS ARE REUNITED


Many servants dressed in handsome uniforms stood ready to welcome the
new arrivals, and when the Wizard got out of the buggy a pretty girl in
a green gown cried out in surprise:

"Why, it's Oz, the Wonderful Wizard, come back again!"

The little man looked at her closely and then took both the maiden's
hands in his and shook them cordially.

"On my word," he exclaimed, "it's little Jellia Jamb--as pert and pretty
as ever!"

"Why not, Mr. Wizard?" asked Jellia, bowing low. "But I'm afraid you
cannot rule the Emerald City, as you used to, because we now have a
beautiful Princess whom everyone loves dearly."

"And the people will not willingly part with her," added a tall soldier
in a Captain-General's uniform.

The Wizard turned to look at him.

"Did you not wear green whiskers at one time?" he asked.

"Yes," said the soldier; "but I shaved them off long ago, and since then
I have risen from a private to be the Chief General of the Royal
Armies."

"That's nice," said the little man. "But I assure you, my good people,
that I do not wish to rule the Emerald City," he added, earnestly.

"In that case you are very welcome!" cried all the servants, and it
pleased the Wizard to note the respect with which the royal retainers
bowed before him. His fame had not been forgotten in the Land of Oz, by
any means.

"Where is Dorothy?" enquired Zeb, anxiously, as he left the buggy and
stood beside his friend the little Wizard.

"She is with the Princess Ozma, in the private rooms of the palace,"
replied Jellia Jamb. "But she has ordered me to make you welcome and to
show you to your apartments."

The boy looked around him with wondering eyes. Such magnificence and
wealth as was displayed in this palace was more than he had ever dreamed
of, and he could scarcely believe that all the gorgeous glitter was real
and not tinsel.

"What's to become of me?" asked the horse, uneasily. He had seen
considerable of life in the cities in his younger days, and knew that
this regal palace was no place for him.

It perplexed even Jellia Jamb, for a time, to know what to do with the
animal. The green maiden was much astonished at the sight of so unusual
a creature, for horses were unknown in this Land; but those who lived in
the Emerald City were apt to be astonished by queer sights, so after
inspecting the cab-horse and noting the mild look in his big eyes the
girl decided not to be afraid of him.

"There are no stables here," said the Wizard, "unless some have been
built since I went away."

"We have never needed them before," answered Jellia; "for the Sawhorse
lives in a room of the palace, being much smaller and more natural in
appearance than this great beast you have brought with you."

"Do you mean that I'm a freak?" asked Jim, angrily.

"Oh, no," she hastened to say, "there may be many more like you in the
place you came from, but in Oz any horse but a Sawhorse is unusual."

This mollified Jim a little, and after some thought the green maiden
decided to give the cab-horse a room in the palace, such a big building
having many rooms that were seldom in use.

So Zeb unharnessed Jim, and several of the servants then led the horse
around to the rear, where they selected a nice large apartment that he
could have all to himself.

Then Jellia said to the Wizard:

"Your own room--which was back of the great Throne Room--has been vacant
ever since you left us. Would you like it again?"

"Yes, indeed!" returned the little man. "It will seem like being at home
again, for I lived in that room for many, many years."

He knew the way to it, and a servant followed him, carrying his satchel.
Zeb was also escorted to a room--so grand and beautiful that he almost
feared to sit in the chairs or lie upon the bed, lest he might dim their
splendor. In the closets he discovered many fancy costumes of rich
velvets and brocades, and one of the attendants told him to dress
himself in any of the clothes that pleased him and to be prepared to
dine with the Princess and Dorothy in an hour's time.

Opening from the chamber was a fine bath-room having a marble tub with
perfumed water; so the boy, still dazed by the novelty of his
surroundings, indulged in a good bath and then selected a maroon velvet
costume with silver buttons to replace his own soiled and much worn
clothing. There were silk stockings and soft leather slippers with
diamond buckles to accompany his new costume, and when he was fully
dressed Zeb looked much more dignified and imposing than ever before in
his life.

He was all ready when an attendant came to escort him to the presence of
the Princess; he followed bashfully and was ushered into a room more
dainty and attractive than it was splendid. Here he found Dorothy seated
beside a young girl so marvelously beautiful that the boy stopped
suddenly with a gasp of admiration.

But Dorothy sprang up and ran to seize her friend's hand, drawing him
impulsively toward the lovely Princess, who smiled most graciously upon
her guest. Then the Wizard entered, and his presence relieved the boy's
embarrassment. The little man was clothed in black velvet, with many
sparkling emerald ornaments decorating his breast; but his bald head and
wrinkled features made him appear more amusing than impressive.

Ozma had been quite curious to meet the famous man who had built the
Emerald City and united the Munchkins, Gillikins, Quadlings and Winkies
into one people; so when they were all four seated at the dinner table
the Princess said:

"Please tell me, Mr. Wizard, whether you called yourself Oz after this
great country, or whether you believe my country is called Oz after you.
It is a matter that I have long wished to enquire about, because you are
of a strange race and my own name is Ozma. No one, I am sure, is better
able to explain this mystery than you."

"That is true," answered the little Wizard; "therefore it will give me
pleasure to explain my connection with your country. In the first place,
I must tell you that I was born in Omaha, and my father, who was a
politician, named me Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkle
Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, Diggs being the last name because he could
think of no more to go before it. Taken altogether, it was a dreadfully
long name to weigh down a poor innocent child, and one of the hardest
lessons I ever learned was to remember my own name. When I grew up I
just called myself O. Z., because the other initials were P-I-N-H-E-A-D;
and that spelled 'pinhead,' which was a reflection on my intelligence."

"Surely no one could blame you for cutting your name short," said Ozma,
sympathetically. "But didn't you cut it almost too short?"

"Perhaps so," replied the Wizard. "When a young man I ran away from home
and joined a circus. I used to call myself a Wizard, and do tricks of
ventriloquism."

"What does that mean?" asked the Princess.

"Throwing my voice into any object I pleased, to make it appear that the
object was speaking instead of me. Also I began to make balloon
ascensions. On my balloon and on all the other articles I used in the
circus I painted the two initials: 'O. Z.', to show that those things
belonged to me.

"One day my balloon ran away with me and brought me across the deserts
to this beautiful country. When the people saw me come from the sky they
naturally thought me some superior creature, and bowed down before me. I
told them I was a Wizard, and showed them some easy tricks that amazed
them; and when they saw the initials painted on the balloon they called
me Oz."

"Now I begin to understand," said the Princess, smiling.

"At that time," continued the Wizard, busily eating his soup while
talking, "there were four separate countries in this Land, each one of
the four being ruled by a Witch. But the people thought my power was
greater than that of the Witches; and perhaps the Witches thought so
too, for they never dared oppose me. I ordered the Emerald City to be
built just where the four countries cornered together, and when it was
completed I announced myself the Ruler of the Land of Oz, which included
all the four countries of the Munchkins, the Gillikins, the Winkies and
the Quadlings. Over this Land I ruled in peace for many years, until I
grew old and longed to see my native city once again. So when Dorothy
was first blown to this place by a cyclone I arranged to go away with
her in a balloon; but the balloon escaped too soon and carried me back
alone. After many adventures I reached Omaha, only to find that all my
old friends were dead or had moved away. So, having nothing else to do,
I joined a circus again, and made my balloon ascensions until the
earthquake caught me."

"That is quite a history," said Ozma; "but there is a little more
history about the Land of Oz that you do not seem to understand--perhaps
for the reason that no one ever told it you. Many years before you came
here this Land was united under one Ruler, as it is now, and the Ruler's
name was always 'Oz', which means in our language 'Great and Good'; or,
if the Ruler happened to be a woman, her name was always 'Ozma.' But
once upon a time four Witches leagued together to depose the king and
rule the four parts of the kingdom themselves; so when the Ruler, my
grandfather, was hunting one day, one Wicked Witch named Mombi stole him
and carried him away, keeping him a close prisoner. Then the Witches
divided up the kingdom, and ruled the four parts of it until you came
here. That was why the people were so glad to see you, and why they
thought from your initials that you were their rightful ruler."

"But, at that time," said the Wizard, thoughtfully, "there were two Good
Witches and two Wicked Witches ruling in the land."

"Yes," replied Ozma, "because a good Witch had conquered Mombi in the
North and Glinda the Good had conquered the evil Witch in the South. But
Mombi was still my grandfather's jailor, and afterward my father's
jailor. When I was born she transformed me into a boy, hoping that no
one would ever recognize me and know that I was the rightful Princess of
the Land of Oz. But I escaped from her and am now the Ruler of my
people."

"I am very glad of that," said the Wizard, "and hope you will consider
me one of your most faithful and devoted subjects."

"We owe a great deal to the Wonderful Wizard," continued the Princess,
"for it was you who built this splendid Emerald City."

"Your people built it," he answered. "I only bossed the job, as we say
in Omaha."

"But you ruled it wisely and well for many years," said she, "and made
the people proud of your magical art. So, as you are now too old to
wander abroad and work in a circus, I offer you a home here as long as
you live. You shall be the Official Wizard of my kingdom, and be treated
with every respect and consideration."

"I accept your kind offer with gratitude, gracious Princess," the little
man said, in a soft voice, and they could all see that tear-drops were
standing in his keen old eyes. It meant a good deal to him to secure a
home like this.

"He's only a humbug Wizard, though," said Dorothy, smiling at him.

"And that is the safest kind of a Wizard to have," replied Ozma,
promptly.

"Oz can do some good tricks, humbug or no humbug," announced Zeb, who
was now feeling more at ease.

"He shall amuse us with his tricks tomorrow," said the Princess. "I have
sent messengers to summon all of Dorothy's old friends to meet her and
give her welcome, and they ought to arrive very soon, now."

Indeed, the dinner was no sooner finished than in rushed the Scarecrow,
to hug Dorothy in his padded arms and tell her how glad he was to see
her again. The Wizard was also most heartily welcomed by the straw man,
who was an important personage in the Land of Oz.

"How are your brains?" enquired the little humbug, as he grasped the
soft, stuffed hands of his old friend.

"Working finely," answered the Scarecrow. "I'm very certain, Oz, that
you gave me the best brains in the world, for I can think with them day
and night, when all other brains are fast asleep."

[Illustration: DOROTHY AND OZMA.]

"How long did you rule the Emerald City, after I left here?" was the
next question.

"Quite awhile, until I was conquered by a girl named General Jinjur. But
Ozma soon conquered her, with the help of Glinda the Good, and after
that I went to live with Nick Chopper, the Tin Woodman."

Just then a loud cackling was heard outside; and, when a servant threw
open the door with a low bow, a yellow hen strutted in. Dorothy sprang
forward and caught the fluffy fowl in her arms, uttering at the same
time a glad cry.

"Oh, Billina!" she said; "how fat and sleek you've grown."

"Why shouldn't I?" asked the hen, in a sharp, clear voice. "I live on
the fat of the land--don't I, Ozma?"

"You have everything you wish for," said the Princess.

Around Billina's neck was a string of beautiful pearls, and on her legs
were bracelets of emeralds. She nestled herself comfortably in Dorothy's
lap until the kitten gave a snarl of jealous anger and leaped up with a
sharp claw fiercely bared to strike Billina a blow. But the little girl
gave the angry kitten such a severe cuff that it jumped down again
without daring to scratch.

"How horrid of you, Eureka!" cried Dorothy. "Is that the way to treat my
friends?"

"You have queer friends, seems to me," replied the kitten, in a surly
tone.

"Seems to me the same way," said Billina, scornfully, "if that beastly
cat is one of them."

"Look here!" said Dorothy, sternly. "I won't have any quarrelling in the
Land of Oz, I can tell you! Everybody lives in peace here, and loves
everybody else; and unless you two, Billina and Eureka, make up and be
friends, I'll take my Magic Belt and wish you both home again,
_immejitly_. So, there!"

They were both much frightened at the threat, and promised meekly to be
good. But it was never noticed that they became very warm friends, for
all of that.

And now the Tin Woodman arrived, his body most beautifully
nickle-plated, so that it shone splendidly in the brilliant light of the
room. The Tin Woodman loved Dorothy most tenderly, and welcomed with joy
the return of the little old Wizard.

"Sir," said he to the latter, "I never can thank you enough for the
excellent heart you once gave me. It has made me many friends, I assure
you, and it beats as kindly and lovingly today as it ever did."

"I'm glad to hear that," said the Wizard. "I was afraid it would get
moldy in that tin body of yours."

"Not at all," returned Nick Chopper. "It keeps finely, being preserved
in my air-tight chest."

Zeb was a little shy when first introduced to these queer people; but
they were so friendly and sincere that he soon grew to admire them very
much, even finding some good qualities in the yellow hen. But he became
nervous again when the next visitor was announced.

"This," said Princess Ozma, "is my friend Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E.,
who assisted me one time when I was in great distress, and is now the
Dean of the Royal College of Athletic Science."

"Ah," said the Wizard; "I'm pleased to meet so distinguished a
personage."

"H. M.," said the Woggle-Bug, pompously, "means Highly Magnified; and T.
E. means Thoroughly Educated. I am, in reality, a very big bug, and
doubtless the most intelligent being in all this broad domain."

"How well you disguise it," said the Wizard. "But I don't doubt your
word in the least."

"Nobody doubts it, sir," replied the Woggle-Bug, and drawing a book from
its pocket the strange insect turned its back on the company and sat
down in a corner to read.

Nobody minded this rudeness, which might have seemed more impolite in
one less thoroughly educated; so they straightway forgot him and joined
in a merry conversation that kept them well amused until bed-time
arrived.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 16.

JIM, THE CAB-HORSE


Jim the Cab-horse found himself in possession of a large room with a
green marble floor and carved marble wainscoting, which was so stately
in its appearance that it would have awed anyone else. Jim accepted it
as a mere detail, and at his command the attendants gave his coat a good
rubbing, combed his mane and tail, and washed his hoofs and fetlocks.
Then they told him dinner would be served directly and he replied that
they could not serve it too quickly to suit his convenience. First they
brought him a steaming bowl of soup, which the horse eyed in dismay.

"Take that stuff away!" he commanded. "Do you take me for a
salamander?"

They obeyed at once, and next served a fine large turbot on a silver
platter, with drawn gravey poured over it.

"Fish!" cried Jim, with a sniff. "Do you take me for a tom-cat? Away
with it!"

The servants were a little discouraged, but soon they brought in a great
tray containing two dozen nicely roasted quail on toast.

"Well, well!" said the horse, now thoroughly provoked. "Do you take me
for a weasel? How stupid and ignorant you are, in the Land of Oz, and
what dreadful things you feed upon! Is there nothing that is decent to
eat in this palace?"

The trembling servants sent for the Royal Steward, who came in haste and
said:

"What would your Highness like for dinner?"

"Highness!" repeated Jim, who was unused to such titles.

"You are at least six feet high, and that is higher than any other
animal in this country," said the Steward.

"Well, my Highness would like some oats," declared the horse.

"Oats? We have no whole oats," the Steward replied, with much
defference. "But there is any quantity of oatmeal, which we often cook
for breakfast. Oatmeal is a breakfast dish," added the Steward, humbly.

"I'll make it a dinner dish," said Jim. "Fetch it on, but don't cook it,
as you value your life."

You see, the respect shown the worn-out old cab-horse made him a little
arrogant, and he forgot he was a guest, never having been treated
otherwise than as a servant since the day he was born, until his arrival
in the Land of Oz. But the royal attendants did not heed the animal's
ill temper. They soon mixed a tub of oatmeal with a little water, and
Jim ate it with much relish.

Then the servants heaped a lot of rugs upon the floor and the old horse
slept on the softest bed he had ever known in his life.

In the morning, as soon as it was daylight, he resolved to take a walk
and try to find some grass for breakfast; so he ambled calmly through
the handsome arch of the doorway, turned the corner of the palace,
wherein all seemed asleep, and came face to face with the Sawhorse.

Jim stopped abruptly, being startled and amazed. The Sawhorse stopped at
the same time and stared at the other with its queer protruding eyes,
which were mere knots in the log that formed its body. The legs of the
Sawhorse were four sticks driven into holes bored in the log; its tail
was a small branch that had been left by accident and its mouth a place
chopped in one end of the body which projected a little and served as
a head. The ends of the wooden legs were shod with plates of solid gold,
and the saddle of the Princess Ozma, which was of red leather set with
sparkling diamonds, was strapped to the clumsy body.

[Illustration: "FOR GOODNESS SAKE, WHAT SORT OF A BEING ARE YOU?"]

Jim's eyes stuck out as much as those of the Sawhorse, and he stared at
the creature with his ears erect and his long head drawn back until it
rested against his arched neck.

In this comical position the two horses circled slowly around each other
for a while, each being unable to realize what the singular thing might
be which it now beheld for the first time. Then Jim exclaimed:

"For goodness sake, what sort of a being are you?"

"I'm a Sawhorse," replied the other.

"Oh; I believe I've heard of you," said the cab-horse; "but you are
unlike anything that I expected to see."

"I do not doubt it," the Sawhorse observed, with a tone of pride. "I am
considered quite unusual."

"You are, indeed. But a rickety wooden thing like you has no right to be
alive."

"I couldn't help it," returned the other, rather crestfallen. "Ozma
sprinkled me with a magic powder, and I just had to live. I know I'm not
much account; but I'm the only horse in all the Land of Oz, so they
treat me with great respect."

"You, a horse!"

"Oh, not a real one, of course. There are no real horses here at all.
But I'm a splendid imitation of one."

Jim gave an indignant neigh.

"Look at me!" he cried. "Behold a real horse!"

The wooden animal gave a start, and then examined the other intently.

"Is it possible that you are a Real Horse?" he murmured.

"Not only possible, but true," replied Jim, who was gratified by the
impression he had created. "It is proved by my fine points. For example,
look at the long hairs on my tail, with which I can whisk away the
flies."

"The flies never trouble me," said the Saw-Horse.

"And notice my great strong teeth, with which I nibble the grass."

"It is not necessary for me to eat," observed the Saw-horse.

"Also examine my broad chest, which enables me to draw deep, full
breaths," said Jim, proudly.

"I have no need to breathe," returned the other.

"No; you miss many pleasures," remarked the cab-horse, pityingly. "You
do not know the relief of brushing away a fly that has bitten you, nor
the delight of eating delicious food, nor the satisfaction of drawing a
long breath of fresh, pure air. You may be an imitation of a horse, but
you're a mighty poor one."

"Oh, I cannot hope ever to be like you," sighed the Sawhorse. "But I am
glad to meet at last a Real Horse. You are certainly the most beautiful
creature I ever beheld."

This praise won Jim completely. To be called beautiful was a novelty in
his experience. Said he:

"Your chief fault, my friend, is in being made of wood, and that I
suppose you cannot help. Real horses, like myself, are made of flesh and
blood and bones."

"I can see the bones all right," replied the Sawhorse, "and they are
admirable and distinct. Also I can see the flesh. But the blood, I
suppose, is tucked away inside."

"Exactly," said Jim.

"What good is it?" asked the Sawhorse.

Jim did not know, but he would not tell the Sawhorse that.

"If anything cuts me," he replied, "the blood runs out to show where I
am cut. You, poor thing! cannot even bleed when you are hurt."

"But I am never hurt," said the Sawhorse. "Once in a while I get broken
up some, but I am easily repaired and put in good order again. And I
never feel a break or a splinter in the least."

Jim was almost tempted to envy the wooden horse for being unable to feel
pain; but the creature was so absurdly unnatural that he decided he
would not change places with it under any circumstances.

"How did you happen to be shod with gold?" he asked.

"Princess Ozma did that," was the reply; "and it saves my legs from
wearing out. We've had a good many adventures together, Ozma and I, and
she likes me."

The cab-horse was about to reply when suddenly he gave a start and a
neigh of terror and stood trembling like a leaf. For around the corner
had come two enormous savage beasts, treading so lightly that they were
upon him before he was aware of their presence. Jim was in the act of
plunging down the path to escape when the Sawhorse cried out:

"Stop, my brother! Stop, Real Horse! These are friends, and will do you
no harm."

Jim hesitated, eyeing the beasts fearfully. One was an enormous Lion
with clear, intelligent eyes, a tawney mane bushy and well kept, and a
body like yellow plush. The other was a great Tiger with purple stripes
around his lithe body, powerful limbs, and eyes that showed through the
half closed lids like coals of fire. The huge forms of these monarchs of
the forest and jungle were enough to strike terror to the stoutest
heart, and it is no wonder Jim was afraid to face them.

But the Sawhorse introduced the stranger in a calm tone, saying,

"This, noble Horse, is my friend the Cowardly Lion, who is the valiant
King of the Forest, but at the same time a faithful vassal of Princess
Ozma. And this is the Hungry Tiger, the terror of the jungle, who longs
to devour fat babies but is prevented by his conscience from doing so.
These royal beasts are both warm friends of little Dorothy and have come
to the Emerald City this morning to welcome her to our fairyland."

Hearing these words Jim resolved to conquer his alarm. He bowed his head
with as much dignity as he could muster toward the savage looking
beasts, who in return nodded in a friendly way.

"Is not the Real Horse a beautiful animal?" asked the Sawhorse
admiringly.

"That is doubtless a matter of taste," returned the Lion. "In the forest
he would be thought ungainly, because his face is stretched out and his
neck is uselessly long. His joints, I notice, are swollen and overgrown,
and he lacks flesh and is old in years."

"And dreadfully tough," added the Hungry Tiger, in a sad voice. "My
conscience would never permit me to eat so tough a morsel as the Real
Horse."

"I'm glad of that," said Jim; "for I, also, have a conscience, and it
tells me not to crush in your skull with a blow of my powerful hoof."

If he thought to frighten the striped beast by such language he was
mistaken. The Tiger seemed to smile, and winked one eye slowly.

"You have a good conscience, friend Horse," it said, "and if you attend
to its teachings it will do much to protect you from harm. Some day I
will let you try to crush in my skull, and afterward you will know more
about tigers than you do now."

"Any friend of Dorothy," remarked the Cowardly Lion, "must be our
friend, as well. So let us cease this talk of skull crushing and
converse upon more pleasant subjects. Have you breakfasted, Sir Horse?"

"Not yet," replied Jim. "But here is plenty of excellent clover, so if
you will excuse me I will eat now."

"He's a vegetarian," remarked the Tiger, as the horse began to munch the
clover. "If I could eat grass I would not need a conscience, for nothing
could then tempt me to devour babies and lambs."

Just then Dorothy, who had risen early and heard the voices of the
animals, ran out to greet her old friends. She hugged both the Lion and
the Tiger with eager delight, but seemed to love the King of Beasts a
little better than she did his hungry friend, having known him longer.

By the time they had indulged in a good talk and Dorothy had told them
all about the awful earthquake and her recent adventures, the breakfast
bell rang from the palace and the little girl went inside to join her
human comrades. As she entered the great hall a voice called out, in a
rather harsh tone:

"What! are _you_ here again?"

"Yes, I am," she answered, looking all around to see where the voice
came from.

"What brought you back?" was the next question, and Dorothy's eye rested
on an antlered head hanging on the wall just over the fireplace, and
caught its lips in the act of moving.

"Good gracious!" she exclaimed. "I thought you were stuffed."

"So I am," replied the head. "But once on a time I was part of the Gump,
which Ozma sprinkled with the Powder of Life. I was then for a time the
Head of the finest Flying Machine that was ever known to exist, and we
did many wonderful things. Afterward the Gump was taken apart and I was
put back on this wall; but I can still talk when I feel in the mood,
which is not often."

"It's very strange," said the girl. "What were you when you were first
alive?"

"That I have forgotten," replied the Gump's Head, "and I do not think it
is of much importance. But here comes Ozma; so I'd better hush up, for
the Princess doesn't like me to chatter since she changed her name from
Tip to Ozma."

Just then the girlish Ruler of Oz opened the door and greeted Dorothy
with a good-morning kiss. The little Princess seemed fresh and rosy and
in good spirits.

"Breakfast is served, dear," she said, "and I am hungry. So don't let us
keep it waiting a single minute."

[Illustration]

[Illustration: JIM STOOD TREMBLING LIKE A LEAF.]




CHAPTER 17.

THE NINE TINY PIGLETS


After breakfast Ozma announced that she had ordered a holiday to be
observed throughout the Emerald City, in honor of her visitors. The
people had learned that their old Wizard had returned to them and all
were anxious to see him again, for he had always been a rare favorite.
So first there was to be a grand procession through the streets, after
which the little old man was requested to perform some of his wizardries
in the great Throne Room of the palace. In the afternoon there were to
be games and races.

The procession was very imposing. First came the Imperial Cornet Band of
Oz, dressed in emerald velvet uniforms with slashes of pea-green satin
and buttons of immense cut emeralds. They played the National air
called "The Oz Spangled Banner," and behind them were the standard
bearers with the Royal flag. This flag was divided into four quarters,
one being colored sky-blue, another pink, a third lavender and a fourth
white. In the center was a large emerald-green star, and all over the
four quarters were sewn spangles that glittered beautifully in the
sunshine. The colors represented the four countries of Oz, and the green
star the Emerald City.

Just behind the royal standard-bearers came the Princess Ozma in her
royal chariot, which was of gold encrusted with emeralds and diamonds
set in exquisite designs. The chariot was drawn on this occasion by the
Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, who were decorated with immense pink
and blue bows. In the chariot rode Ozma and Dorothy, the former in
splendid raiment and wearing her royal coronet, while the little Kansas
girl wore around her waist the Magic Belt she had once captured from the
Nome King.

Following the chariot came the Scarecrow mounted on the Sawhorse, and
the people cheered him almost as loudly as they did their lovely Ruler.
Behind him stalked with regular, jerky steps, the famous machine-man
called Tik-tok, who had been wound up by Dorothy for the occasion.
Tik-tok moved by clockwork, and was made all of burnished copper. He
really belonged to the Kansas girl, who had much respect for his
thoughts after they had been properly wound and set going; but as the
copper man would be useless in any place but a fairy country Dorothy had
left him in charge of Ozma, who saw that he was suitably cared for.

There followed another band after this, which was called the Royal Court
Band, because the members all lived in the palace. They wore white
uniforms with real diamond buttons and played "What is Oz without Ozma"
very sweetly.

Then came Professor Woggle-Bug, with a group of students from the Royal
College of Scientific Athletics. The boys wore long hair and striped
sweaters and yelled their college yell every other step they took, to
the great satisfaction of the populace, which was glad to have this
evidence that their lungs were in good condition.

The brilliantly polished Tin Woodman marched next, at the head of the
Royal Army of Oz which consisted of twenty-eight officers, from Generals
down to Captains. There were no privates in the army because all were so
courageous and skillful that they had been promoted one by one until
there were no privates left. Jim and the buggy followed, the old
cab-horse being driven by Zeb while the Wizard stood up on the seat and
bowed his bald head right and left in answer to the cheers of the
people, who crowded thick about him.

Taken altogether the procession was a grand success, and when it had
returned to the palace the citizens crowded into the great Throne Room
to see the Wizard perform his tricks.

The first thing the little humbug did was to produce a tiny white piglet
from underneath his hat and pretend to pull it apart, making two. This
act he repeated until all of the nine tiny piglets were visible, and
they were so glad to get out of his pocket that they ran around in a
very lively manner. The pretty little creatures would have been a
novelty anywhere, so the people were as amazed and delighted at their
appearance as even the Wizard could have desired. When he had made them
all disappear again Ozma declared she was sorry they were gone, for she
wanted one of them to pet and play with. So the Wizard pretended to take
one of the piglets out of the hair of the Princess (while really he
slyly took it from his inside pocket) and Ozma smiled joyously as the
creature nestled in her arms, and she promised to have an emerald collar
made for its fat neck and to keep the little squealer always at hand to
amuse her.

Afterward it was noticed that the Wizard always performed his famous
trick with eight piglets, but it seemed to please the people just as
well as if there had been nine of them.

In his little room back of the Throne Room the Wizard had found a lot of
things he had left behind him when he went away in the balloon, for no
one had occupied the apartment in his absence. There was enough material
there to enable him to prepare several new tricks which he had learned
from some of the jugglers in the circus, and he had passed part of the
night in getting them ready. So he followed the trick of the nine tiny
piglets with several other wonderful feats that greatly delighted his
audience and the people did not seem to care a bit whether the little
man was a humbug Wizard or not, so long as he succeeded in amusing them.
They applauded all his tricks and at the end of the performance begged
him earnestly not to go away again and leave them.

"In that case," said the little man, gravely, "I will cancel all of my
engagements before the crowned heads of Europe and America and devote
myself to the people of Oz, for I love you all so well that I can deny
you nothing."

After the people had been dismissed with this promise our friends joined
Princess Ozma at an elaborate luncheon in the palace, where even the
Tiger and the Lion were sumptuously fed and Jim the Cab-horse ate his
oatmeal out of a golden bowl with seven rows of rubies, sapphires and
diamonds set around the rim of it.

In the afternoon they all went to a great field outside the city gates
where the games were to be held. There was a beautiful canopy for Ozma
and her guests to sit under and watch the people run races and jump and
wrestle. You may be sure the folks of Oz did their best with such a
distinguished company watching them, and finally Zeb offered to wrestle
with a little Munchkin who seemed to be the champion. In appearance he
was twice as old as Zeb, for he had long pointed whiskers and wore a
peaked hat with little bells all around the brim of it, which tinkled
gaily as he moved. But although the Munchkin was hardly tall enough to
come to Zeb's shoulder he was so strong and clever that he laid the boy
three times on his back with apparent ease.

Zeb was greatly astonished at his defeat, and when the pretty Princess
joined her people in laughing at him he proposed a boxing-match with the
Munchkin, to which the little Ozite readily agreed. But the first time
that Zeb managed to give him a sharp box on the ears the Munchkin sat
down upon the ground and cried until the tears ran down his whiskers,
because he had been hurt. This made Zeb laugh, in turn, and the boy
felt comforted to find that Ozma laughed as merrily at her weeping
subject as she had at him.

Just then the Scarecrow proposed a race between the Sawhorse and the
Cab-horse; and although all the others were delighted at the suggestion
the Sawhorse drew back, saying:

"Such a race would not be fair."

"Of course not," added Jim, with a touch of scorn; "those little wooden
legs of yours are not half as long as my own."

"It isn't that," said the Sawhorse, modestly; "but I never tire, and you
do."

"Bah!" cried Jim, looking with great disdain at the other; "do you
imagine for an instant that such a shabby imitation of a horse as you
are can run as fast as I?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," replied the Sawhorse.

"That is what we are trying to find out," remarked the Scarecrow. "The
object of a race is to see who can win it--or at least that is what my
excellent brains think."

"Once, when I was young," said Jim, "I was a race horse, and defeated
all who dared run against me. I was born in Kentucky, you know, where
all the best and most aristocratic horses come from."

"But you're old, now, Jim," suggested Zeb.

"Old! Why, I feel like a colt today," replied Jim. "I only wish there
was a real horse here for me to race with. I'd show the people a fine
sight, I can tell you."

"Then why not race with the Sawhorse?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"He's afraid," said Jim.

"Oh, no," answered the Sawhorse. "I merely said it wasn't fair. But if
my friend the Real Horse is willing to undertake the race I am quite
ready."

So they unharnessed Jim and took the saddle off the Sawhorse, and the
two queerly matched animals were stood side by side for the start.

"When I say 'Go!'" Zeb called to them, "you must dig out and race until
you reach those three trees you see over yonder. Then circle 'round them
and come back again. The first one that passes the place where the
Princess sits shall be named the winner. Are you ready?"

"I suppose I ought to give the wooden dummy a good start of me," growled
Jim.

"Never mind that," said the Sawhorse. "I'll do the best I can."

"Go!" cried Zeb; and at the word the two horses leaped forward and the
race was begun.

[Illustration: THE WIZARD TOOK A PIGLET FROM OZMA'S HAIR.]

Jim's big hoofs pounded away at a great rate, and although he did not
look very graceful he ran in a way to do credit to his Kentucky
breeding. But the Sawhorse was swifter than the wind. Its wooden legs
moved so fast that their twinkling could scarcely be seen, and
although so much smaller than the cab-horse it covered the ground much
faster. Before they had reached the trees the Sawhorse was far ahead,
and the wooden animal returned to the starting place and was being
lustily cheered by the Ozites before Jim came panting up to the canopy
where the Princess and her friends were seated.

[Illustration: THE HUNGRY TIGER TEACHES JIM A LESSON.]

I am sorry to record the fact that Jim was not only ashamed of his
defeat but for a moment lost control of his temper. As he looked at the
comical face of the Sawhorse he imagined that the creature was laughing
at him; so in a fit of unreasonable anger he turned around and made a
vicious kick that sent his rival tumbling head over heels upon the
ground, and broke off one of its legs and its left ear.

An instant later the Tiger crouched and launched its huge body through
the air swift and resistless as a ball from a cannon. The beast struck
Jim full on his shoulder and sent the astonished cab-horse rolling over
and over, amid shouts of delight from the spectators, who had been
horrified by the ungracious act he had been guilty of.

When Jim came to himself and sat upon his haunches he found the Cowardly
Lion crouched on one side of him and the Hungry Tiger on the other, and
their eyes were glowing like balls of fire.

"I beg your pardon, I'm sure," said Jim, meekly. "I was wrong to kick
the Sawhorse, and I am sorry I became angry at him. He has won the race,
and won it fairly; but what can a horse of flesh do against a tireless
beast of wood?"

Hearing this apology the Tiger and the Lion stopped lashing their tails
and retreated with dignified steps to the side of the Princess.

"No one must injure one of our friends in our presence," growled the
Lion; and Zeb ran to Jim and whispered that unless he controlled his
temper in the future he would probably be torn to pieces.

Then the Tin Woodman cut a straight and strong limb from a tree with his
gleaming axe and made a new leg and a new ear for the Sawhorse; and when
they had been securely fastened in place Princess Ozma took the coronet
from her own head and placed it upon that of the winner of the race.
Said she:

"My friend, I reward you for your swiftness by proclaiming you Prince of
Horses, whether of wood or of flesh; and hereafter all other horses--in
the Land of Oz, at least--must be considered imitations, and you the
real Champion of your race."

There was more applause at this, and then Ozma had the jewelled saddle
replaced upon the Sawhorse and herself rode the victor back to the city
at the head of the grand procession.

"I ought to be a fairy," grumbled Jim, as he slowly drew the buggy home;
"for to be just an ordinary horse in a fairy country is to be of no
account whatever. It's no place for us, Zeb."

"It's lucky we got here, though," said the boy; and Jim thought of the
dark cave, and agreed with him.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER 18.

THE TRIAL OF EUREKA THE KITTEN


Several days of festivity and merry-making followed, for such old
friends did not often meet and there was much to be told and talked over
between them, and many amusements to be enjoyed in this delightful
country.

Ozma was happy to have Dorothy beside her, for girls of her own age with
whom it was proper for the Princess to associate were very few, and
often the youthful Ruler of Oz was lonely for lack of companionship.

It was the third morning after Dorothy's arrival, and she was sitting
with Ozma and their friends in a reception room, talking over old times,
when the Princess said to her maid:

"Please go to my boudoir, Jellia, and get the white piglet I left on the
dressing-table. I want to play with it."

Jellia at once departed on the errand, and she was gone so long that
they had almost forgotten her mission when the green robed maiden
returned with a troubled face.

"The piglet is not there, your Highness," said she.

"Not there!" exclaimed Ozma. "Are you sure?"

"I have hunted in every part of the room," the maid replied.

"Was not the door closed?" asked the Princess.

"Yes, your Highness; I am sure it was; for when I opened it Dorothy's
white kitten crept out and ran up the stairs."

Hearing this, Dorothy and the Wizard exchanged startled glances, for
they remembered how often Eureka had longed to eat a piglet. The little
girl jumped up at once.

"Come, Ozma," she said, anxiously; "let us go ourselves to search for
the piglet."

So the two went to the dressing-room of the Princess and searched
carefully in every corner and among the vases and baskets and ornaments
that stood about the pretty boudoir. But not a trace could they find of
the tiny creature they sought.

Dorothy was nearly weeping, by this time, while Ozma was angry and
indignant. When they returned to the others the Princess said:

"There is little doubt that my pretty piglet has been eaten by that
horrid kitten, and if that is true the offender must be punished."

"I don't b'lieve Eureka would do such a dreadful thing!" cried Dorothy,
much distressed. "Go and get my kitten, please, Jellia, and we'll hear
what she has to say about it."

The green maiden hastened away, but presently returned and said:

"The kitten will not come. She threatened to scratch my eyes out if I
touched her."

"Where is she?" asked Dorothy.

"Under the bed in your own room," was the reply.

So Dorothy ran to her room and found the kitten under the bed.

"Come here, Eureka!" she said.

"I won't," answered the kitten, in a surly voice.

"Oh, Eureka! Why are you so bad?"

The kitten did not reply.

"If you don't come to me, right away," continued Dorothy, getting
provoked, "I'll take my Magic Belt and wish you in the Country of the
Gurgles."

"Why do you want me?" asked Eureka, disturbed by this threat.

"You must go to Princess Ozma. She wants to talk to you."

"All right," returned the kitten, creeping out. "I'm not afraid of
Ozma--or anyone else."

Dorothy carried her in her arms back to where the others sat in grieved
and thoughtful silence.

"Tell me, Eureka," said the Princess, gently: "did you eat my pretty
piglet?"

"I won't answer such a foolish question," asserted Eureka, with a snarl.

"Oh, yes you will, dear," Dorothy declared. "The piglet is gone, and you
ran out of the room when Jellia opened the door. So, if you are
innocent, Eureka, you must tell the Princess how you came to be in her
room, and what has become of the piglet."

"Who accuses me?" asked the kitten, defiantly.

"No one," answered Ozma. "Your actions alone accuse you. The fact is
that I left my little pet in my dressing-room lying asleep upon the
table; and you must hove stolen in without my knowing it. When next the
door was opened you ran out and hid yourself--and the piglet was gone."

"That's none of my business," growled the kitten.

"Don't be impudent, Eureka," admonished Dorothy.

"It is you who are impudent," said Eureka, "for accusing me of such a
crime when you can't prove it except by guessing."

Ozma was now greatly incensed by the kitten's conduct. She summoned her
Captain-General, and when the long, lean officer appeared she said:

"Carry this cat away to prison, and keep her in safe confinement until
she is tried by law for the crime of murder."

So the Captain-General took Eureka from the arms of the now weeping
Dorothy and in spite of the kitten's snarls and scratches carried it
away to prison.

"What shall we do now?" asked the Scarecrow, with a sigh, for such a
crime had cast a gloom over all the company.

"I will summon the Court to meet in the Throne Room at three o'clock,"
replied Ozma. "I myself will be the judge, and the kitten shall have a
fair trial."

"What will happen if she is guilty?" asked Dorothy.

"She must die," answered the Princess.

"Nine times?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"As many times as is necessary," was the reply. "I will ask the Tin
Woodman to defend the prisoner, because he has such a kind heart I am
sure he will do his best to save her. And the Woggle-Bug shall be the
Public Accuser, because he is so learned that no one can deceive him."

"Who will be the jury?" asked the Tin Woodman.

[Illustration: PORTRAIT OF THE WIZARD OF OZ.]

"There ought to be several animals on the jury," said Ozma, "because
animals understand each other better than we people understand them.
So the jury shall consist of the Cowardly Lion, the Hungry Tiger, Jim
the Cab-horse, the Yellow Hen, the Scarecrow, the Wizard, Tik-tok the
Machine Man, the Sawhorse and Zeb of Hugson's Ranch. That makes the nine
which the law requires, and all my people shall be admitted to hear the
testimony."

They now separated to prepare for the sad ceremony; for whenever an
appeal is made to law sorrow is almost certain to follow--even in a
fairyland like Oz. But it must be stated that the people of that Land
were generally so well-behaved that there was not a single lawyer
amongst them, and it had been years since any Ruler had sat in judgment
upon an offender of the law. The crime of murder being the most dreadful
crime of all, tremendous excitement prevailed in the Emerald City when
the news of Eureka's arrest and trial became known.

The Wizard, when he returned to his own room, was exceedingly
thoughtful. He had no doubt Eureka had eaten his piglet, but he realized
that a kitten cannot be depended upon at all times to act properly,
since its nature is to destroy small animals and even birds for food,
and the tame cat that we keep in our houses today is descended from the
wild cat of the jungle--a very ferocious creature, indeed. The Wizard
knew that if Dorothy's pet was found guilty and condemned to death the
little girl would be made very unhappy; so, although he grieved over the
piglet's sad fate as much as any of them, he resolved to save Eureka's
life.

Sending for the Tin Woodman the Wizard took him into a corner and
whispered:

"My friend, it is your duty to defend the white kitten and try to save
her, but I fear you will fail because Eureka has long wished to eat a
piglet, to my certain knowledge, and my opinion is that she has been
unable to resist the temptation. Yet her disgrace and death would not
bring back the piglet, but only serve to make Dorothy unhappy. So I
intend to prove the kitten's innocence by a trick."

He drew from his inside pocket one of the eight tiny piglets that were
remaining and continued:

"This creature you must hide in some safe place, and if the jury decides
that Eureka is guilty you may then produce this piglet and claim it is
the one that was lost. All the piglets are exactly alike, so no one can
dispute your word. This deception will save Eureka's life, and then we
may all be happy again."

"I do not like to deceive my friends," replied the Tin Woodman; "still,
my kind heart urges me to save Eureka's life, and I can usually trust my
heart to do the right thing. So I will do as you say, friend Wizard."

After some thought he placed the little pig inside his funnel-shaped
hat, and then put the hat upon his head and went back to his room to
think over his speech to the jury.




CHAPTER 19.

THE WIZARD PERFORMS ANOTHER TRICK


At three o'clock the Throne Room was crowded with citizens, men, women
and children being eager to witness the great trial.

Princess Ozma, dressed in her most splendid robes of state, sat in the
magnificent emerald throne, with her jewelled sceptre in her hand and
her sparkling coronet upon her fair brow. Behind her throne stood the
twenty-eight officers of her army and many officials of the royal
household. At her right sat the queerly assorted Jury--animals, animated
dummies and people--all gravely prepared to listen to what was said. The
kitten had been placed in a large cage just before the throne, where she
sat upon her haunches and gazed through the bars at the crowds around
her, with seeming unconcern.

And now, at a signal from Ozma, the Woggle-Bug arose and addressed the
jury. His tone was pompous and he strutted up and down in an absurd
attempt to appear dignified.

"Your Royal Highness and Fellow Citizens," he began; "the small cat you
see a prisoner before you is accused of the crime of first murdering and
then eating our esteemed Ruler's fat piglet--or else first eating and
then murdering it. In either case a grave crime has been committed which
deserves a grave punishment."

"Do you mean my kitten must be put in a grave?" asked Dorothy.

"Don't interrupt, little girl," said the Woggle-Bug. "When I get my
thoughts arranged in good order I do not like to have anything upset
them or throw them into confusion."

"If your thoughts were any good they wouldn't become confused," remarked
the Scarecrow, earnestly. "My thoughts are always----"

"Is this a trial of thoughts, or of kittens?" demanded the Woggle-Bug.

"It's a trial of one kitten," replied the Scarecrow; "but your manner is
a trial to us all."

"Let the Public Accuser continue," called Ozma from her throne, "and I
pray you do not interrupt him."

"The criminal who now sits before the court licking her paws," resumed
the Woggle-Bug, "has long desired to unlawfully eat the fat piglet,
which was no bigger than a mouse. And finally she made a wicked plan to
satisfy her depraved appetite for pork. I can see her, in my mind's
eye----"

"What's that?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I say I can see her in my mind's eye----"

"The mind has no eye," declared the Scarecrow. "It's blind."

"Your Highness," cried the Woggle-Bug, appealing to Ozma, "have I a
mind's eye, or haven't I?"

"If you have, it is invisible," said the Princess.

"Very true," returned the Woggle-Bug, bowing. "I say I see the criminal,
in my mind's eye, creeping stealthily into the room of our Ozma and
secreting herself, when no one was looking, until the Princess had gone
away and the door was closed. Then the murderer was alone with her
helpless victim, the fat piglet, and I see her pounce upon the innocent
creature and eat it up----"

"Are you still seeing with your mind's eye?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"Of course; how else could I see it? And we know the thing is true,
because since the time of that interview there is no piglet to be found
anywhere."

[Illustration: EUREKA IN COURT.]

"I suppose, if the cat had been gone, instead of the piglet, your mind's
eye would see the piglet eating the cat," suggested the Scarecrow.

"Very likely," acknowledged the Woggle-Bug. "And now, Fellow Citizens
and Creatures of the Jury, I assert that so awful a crime deserves
death, and in the case of the ferocious criminal before you--who is now
washing her face--the death penalty should be inflicted nine times."

There was great applause when the speaker sat down. Then the Princess
spoke in a stern voice:

"Prisoner, what have you to say for yourself? Are you guilty, or not
guilty?"

"Why, that's for you to find out," replied Eureka. "If you can prove I'm
guilty, I'll be willing to die nine times, but a mind's eye is no proof,
because the Woggle-Bug has no mind to see with."

"Never mind, dear," said Dorothy.

Then the Tin Woodman arose and said:

"Respected Jury and dearly beloved Ozma, I pray you not to judge this
feline prisoner unfeelingly. I do not think the innocent kitten can be
guilty, and surely it is unkind to accuse a luncheon of being a murder.
Eureka is the sweet pet of a lovely little girl whom we all admire, and
gentleness and innocence are her chief virtues. Look at the kitten's
intelligent eyes;" (here Eureka closed her eyes sleepily) "gaze at her
smiling countenance!" (here Eureka snarled and showed her teeth) "mark
the tender pose of her soft, padded little hands!" (Here Eureka bared
her sharp claws and scratched at the bars of the cage.) "Would such a
gentle animal be guilty of eating a fellow creature? No; a thousand
times, no!"

"Oh, cut it short," said Eureka; "you've talked long enough."

"I'm trying to defend you," remonstrated the Tin Woodman.

"Then say something sensible," retorted the kitten. "Tell them it would
be foolish for me to eat the piglet, because I had sense enough to know
it would raise a row if I did. But don't try to make out I'm too
innocent to eat a fat piglet if I could do it and not be found out. I
imagine it would taste mighty good."

"Perhaps it would, to those who eat," remarked the Tin Woodman. "I
myself, not being built to eat, have no personal experience in such
matters. But I remember that our great poet once said:

    "'To eat is sweet
    When hunger's seat
    Demands a treat
    Of savory meat.'

"Take this into consideration, friends of the Jury, and you will readily
decide that the kitten is wrongfully accused and should be set at
liberty."

When the Tin Woodman sat down no one applauded him, for his arguments
had not been very convincing and few believed that he had proved
Eureka's innocence. As for the Jury, the members whispered to each other
for a few minutes and then they appointed the Hungry Tiger their
spokesman. The huge beast slowly arose and said:

"Kittens have no consciences, so they eat whatever pleases them. The
jury believes the white kitten known as Eureka is guilty of having eaten
the piglet owned by Princess Ozma, and recommends that she be put to
death in punishment of the crime."

The judgment of the jury was received with great applause, although
Dorothy was sobbing miserably at the fate of her pet. The Princess was
just about to order Eureka's head chopped off with the Tin Woodman's axe
when that brilliant personage once more arose and addressed her.

"Your Highness," said he, "see how easy it is for a jury to be mistaken.
The kitten could not have eaten your piglet--for here it is!"

He took off his funnel hat and from beneath it produced a tiny white
piglet, which he held aloft that all might see it clearly.

Ozma was delighted and exclaimed, eagerly:

"Give me my pet, Nick Chopper!"

And all the people cheered and clapped their hands, rejoicing that the
prisoner had escaped death and been proved to be innocent.

As the Princess held the white piglet in her arms and stroked its soft
hair she said: "Let Eureka out of the cage, for she is no longer a
prisoner, but our good friend. Where did you find my missing pet, Nick
Chopper?"

"In a room of the palace," he answered.

"Justice," remarked the Scarecrow, with a sigh, "is a dangerous thing to
meddle with. If you hadn't happened to find the piglet, Eureka would
surely have been executed."

"But justice prevailed at the last," said Ozma, "for here is my pet, and
Eureka is once more free."

"I refuse to be free," cried the kitten, in a sharp voice, "unless the
Wizard can do his trick with eight piglets. If he can produce but seven,
then this it not the piglet that was lost, but another one."

"Hush, Eureka!" warned the Wizard.

"Don't be foolish," advised the Tin Woodman, "or you may be sorry for
it."

"The piglet that belonged to the Princess wore an emerald collar," said
Eureka, loudly enough for all to hear.

"So it did!" exclaimed Ozma. "This cannot be the one the Wizard gave
me."

"Of course not; he had nine of them, altogether," declared Eureka; "and
I must say it was very stingy of him not to let me eat just a few. But
now that this foolish trial is ended, I will tell you what really became
of your pet piglet."

At this everyone in the Throne Room suddenly became quiet, and the
kitten continued, in a calm, mocking tone of voice:

"I will confess that I intended to eat the little pig for my breakfast;
so I crept into the room where it was kept while the Princess was
dressing and hid myself under a chair. When Ozma went away she closed
the door and left her pet on the table. At once I jumped up and told the
piglet not to make a fuss, for he would be inside of me in half a
second; but no one can teach one of these creatures to be reasonable.
Instead of keeping still, so I could eat him comfortably, he trembled so
with fear that he fell off the table into a big vase that was standing
on the floor. The vase had a very small neck, and spread out at the top
like a bowl. At first the piglet stuck in the neck of the vase and I
thought I should get him, after all, but he wriggled himself through and
fell down into the deep bottom part--and I suppose he's there yet."

All were astonished at this confession, and Ozma at once sent an officer
to her room to fetch the vase. When he returned the Princess looked down
the narrow neck of the big ornament and discovered her lost piglet, just
as Eureka had said she would.

There was no way to get the creature out without breaking the vase, so
the Tin Woodman smashed it with his axe and set the little prisoner
free.

Then the crowd cheered lustily and Dorothy hugged the kitten in her arms
and told her how delighted she was to know that she was innocent.

"But why didn't you tell us at first?" she asked.

"It would have spoiled the fun," replied the kitten, yawning.

Ozma gave the Wizard back the piglet he had so kindly allowed Nick
Chopper to substitute for the lost one, and then she carried her own
into the apartments of the palace where she lived. And now, the trial
being over, the good citizens of the Emerald City scattered to their
homes, well content with the day's amusement.




CHAPTER 20.

ZEB RETURNS TO THE RANCH


Eureka was much surprised to find herself in disgrace; but she was, in
spite of the fact that she had not eaten the piglet. For the folks of Oz
knew the kitten had tried to commit the crime, and that only an accident
had prevented her from doing so; therefore even the Hungry Tiger
preferred not to associate with her. Eureka was forbidden to wander
around the palace and was made to stay in confinement in Dorothy's room;
so she began to beg her mistress to send her to some other place where
she could enjoy herself better.

Dorothy was herself anxious to get home, so she promised Eureka they
would not stay in the Land of Oz much longer.

The next evening after the trial the little girl begged Ozma to allow
her to look in the enchanted picture, and the Princess readily
consented. She took the child to her room and said: "Make your wish,
dear, and the picture will show the scene you desire to behold."

Then Dorothy found, with the aid of the enchanted picture, that Uncle
Henry had returned to the farm in Kansas, and she also saw that both he
and Aunt Em were dressed in mourning, because they thought their little
niece had been killed by the earthquake.

"Really," said the girl, anxiously, "I must get back as soon as poss'ble
to my own folks."

Zeb also wanted to see his home, and although he did not find anyone
mourning for him, the sight of Hugson's Ranch in the picture made him
long to get back there.

"This is a fine country, and I like all the people that live in it," he
told Dorothy. "But the fact is, Jim and I don't seem to fit into a
fairyland, and the old horse has been begging me to go home again ever
since he lost the race. So, if you can find a way to fix it, we'll be
much obliged to you."

"Ozma can do it, easily," replied Dorothy. "Tomorrow morning I'll go to
Kansas and you can go to Californy."

[Illustration: "I'M MUCH OBLIGED FOR ALL YOUR KINDNESS."]

That last evening was so delightful that the boy will never forget it as
long as he lives. They were all together (except Eureka) in the
pretty rooms of the Princess, and the Wizard did some new tricks, and
the Scarecrow told stories, and the Tin Woodman sang a love song in a
sonorous, metallic voice, and everybody laughed and had a good time.
Then Dorothy wound up Tik-tok and he danced a jig to amuse the company,
after which the Yellow Hen related some of her adventures with the Nome
King in the Land of Ev.

The Princess served delicious refreshments to those who were in the
habit of eating, and when Dorothy's bed time arrived the company
separated after exchanging many friendly sentiments.

Next morning they all assembled for the final parting, and many of the
officials and courtiers came to look upon the impressive ceremonies.

Dorothy held Eureka in her arms and bade her friends a fond good-bye.

"You must come again, some time," said the little Wizard; and she
promised she would if she found it possible to do so.

"But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em need me to help them," she added, "so I
can't ever be very long away from the farm in Kansas."

Ozma wore the Magic Belt; and, when she had kissed Dorothy farewell and
had made her wish, the little girl and her kitten disappeared in a
twinkling.

"Where is she?" asked Zeb, rather bewildered by the suddenness of it.

"Greeting her uncle and aunt in Kansas, by this time," returned Ozma,
with a smile.

Then Zeb brought out Jim, all harnessed to the buggy, and took his seat.

"I'm much obliged for all your kindness," said the boy, "and very
grateful to you for saving my life and sending me home again after all
the good times I've had. I think this is the loveliest country in the
world; but not being fairies Jim and I feel we ought to be where we
belong--and that's at the ranch. Good-bye, everybody!"

He gave a start and rubbed his eyes. Jim was trotting along the
well-known road, shaking his ears and whisking his tail with a contented
motion. Just ahead of them were the gates of Hugson's Ranch, and Uncle
Hugson now came out and stood with uplifted arms and wide open mouth,
staring in amazement.

"Goodness gracious! It's Zeb--and Jim, too!" he exclaimed. "Where in the
world have you been, my lad?"

"Why, in the world, Uncle," answered Zeb, with a laugh.

The End


CHAPTER ONE

[Illustration]


The Nome King was in an angry mood, and at such times he was very
disagreeable. Every one kept away from him, even his Chief Steward
Kaliko.

Therefore the King stormed and raved all by himself, walking up and down
in his jewel-studded cavern and getting angrier all the time. Then he
remembered that it was no fun being angry unless he had some one to
frighten and make miserable, and he rushed to his big gong and made it
clatter as loud as he could.

In came the Chief Steward, trying not to show the Nome King how
frightened he was.

"Send the Chief Counselor here!" shouted the angry monarch.

Kaliko ran out as fast as his spindle legs could carry his fat round
body, and soon the Chief Counselor entered the cavern. The King scowled
and said to him:

"I'm in great trouble over the loss of my Magic Belt. Every little while
I want to do something magical, and find I can't because the Belt is
gone. That makes me angry, and when I'm angry I can't have a good time.
Now, what do you advise?"

"Some people," said the Chief Counselor, "enjoy getting angry."

"But not all the time," declared the King. "To be angry once in a while
is really good fun, because it makes others so miserable. But to be
angry morning, noon and night, as I am, grows monotonous and prevents my
gaining any other pleasure in life. Now, what do you advise?"

"Why, if you are angry because you want to do magical things and can't,
and if you don't want to get angry at all, my advice is not to want to
do magical things."

Hearing this, the King glared at his Counselor with a furious expression
and tugged at his own long white whiskers until he pulled them so hard
that he yelled with pain.

"You are a fool!" he exclaimed.

"I share that honor with your Majesty," said the Chief Counselor.

The King roared with rage and stamped his foot.

[Illustration]

"Ho, there, my guards!" he cried. "Ho" is a royal way of saying, "Come
here." So, when the guards had hoed, the King said to them:

"Take this Chief Counselor and throw him away."

Then the guards took the Chief Counselor, and bound him with chains to
prevent his struggling, and threw him away. And the King paced up and
down his cavern more angry than before.

Finally he rushed to his big gong and made it clatter like a fire-alarm.
Kaliko appeared again, trembling and white with fear.

"Fetch my pipe!" yelled the King.

"Your pipe is already here, your Majesty," replied Kaliko.

"Then get my tobacco!" roared the King.

"The tobacco is in your pipe, your Majesty," returned the Steward.

"Then bring a live coal from the furnace!" commanded the King.

"The tobacco is lighted, and your Majesty is already smoking your pipe,"
answered the Steward.

"Why, so I am!" said the King, who had forgotten this fact; "but you are
very rude to remind me of it."

"I am a lowborn, miserable villain," declared the Chief Steward,
humbly.

The Nome King could think of nothing to say next, so he puffed away at
his pipe and paced up and down the room. Finally he remembered how angry
he was, and cried out:

"What do you mean, Kaliko, by being so contented when your monarch is
unhappy?"

"What makes you unhappy?" asked the Steward.

"I've lost my Magic Belt. A little girl named Dorothy, who was here with
Ozma of Oz, stole my Belt and carried it away with her," said the King,
grinding his teeth with rage.

"She captured it in a fair fight," Kaliko ventured to say.

"But I want it! I must have it! Half my power is gone with that Belt!"
roared the King.

"You will have to go to the Land of Oz to recover it, and your Majesty
can't get to the Land of Oz in any possible way," said the Steward,
yawning because he had been on duty ninety-six hours, and was sleepy.

"Why not?" asked the King.

"Because there is a deadly desert all around that fairy country, which
no one is able to cross. You know that fact as well as I do, your
Majesty. Never mind the lost Belt. You have plenty of power left, for
you rule this underground kingdom like a tyrant, and thousands of Nomes
obey your commands. I advise you to drink a glass of melted silver, to
quiet your nerves, and then go to bed."

The King grabbed a big ruby and threw it at Kaliko's head. The Steward
ducked to escape the heavy jewel, which crashed against the door just
over his left ear.

"Get out of my sight! Vanish! Go away--and send General Blug here,"
screamed the Nome King.

Kaliko hastily withdrew, and the Nome King stamped up and down until the
General of his armies appeared.

This Nome was known far and wide as a terrible fighter and a cruel,
desperate commander. He had fifty thousand Nome soldiers, all well
drilled, who feared nothing but their stern master. Yet General Blug was
a trifle uneasy when he arrived and saw how angry the Nome King was.

"Ha! So you're here!" cried the King.

"So I am," said the General.

"March your army at once to the Land of Oz, capture and destroy the
Emerald City, and bring back to me my Magic Belt!" roared the King.

"You're crazy," calmly remarked the General.

"What's that? What's that? What's that?" And the Nome King danced around
on his pointed toes, he was so enraged.

"You don't know what you're talking about," continued the General,
seating himself upon a large cut diamond. "I advise you to stand in a
corner and count sixty before you speak again. By that time you may be
more sensible."

The King looked around for something to throw at General Blug, but as
nothing was handy he began to consider that perhaps the man was right
and he had been talking foolishly. So he merely threw himself into his
glittering throne and tipped his crown over his ear and curled his feet
up under him and glared wickedly at Blug.

"In the first place," said the General, "we cannot march across the
deadly desert to the Land of Oz; and, if we could, the Ruler of that
country, Princess Ozma, has certain fairy powers that would render my
army helpless. Had you not lost your Magic Belt we might have some
chance of defeating Ozma; but the Belt is gone."

"I want it!" screamed the King. "I must have it."

"Well, then, let us try in a sensible way to get it," replied the
General. "The Belt was captured by a little girl named Dorothy, who
lives in Kansas, in the United States of America."

"But she left it in the Emerald City, with Ozma," declared the King.

"How do you know that?" asked the General.

"One of my spies, who is a Blackbird, flew over the desert to the Land
of Oz, and saw the Magic Belt in Ozma's palace," replied the King with a
groan.

"Now, that gives me an idea," said General Blug, thoughtfully. "There
are two ways to get to the Land of Oz without traveling across the sandy
desert."

"What are they?" demanded the King, eagerly.

"One way is _over_ the desert, through the air; and the other way is
_under_ the desert, through the earth."

[Illustration]

Hearing this the Nome King uttered a yell of joy and leaped from his
throne, to resume his wild walk up and down the cavern.

"That's it, Blug!" he shouted. "That's the idea, General! I'm King of
the Under World, and my subjects are all miners. I'll make a secret
tunnel under the desert to the Land of Oz--yes! right up to the Emerald
City--and you will march your armies there and capture the whole
country!"

"Softly, softly, your Majesty. Don't go too fast," warned the General.
"My Nomes are good fighters, but they are not strong enough to conquer
the Emerald City."

"Are you sure?" asked the King.

"Absolutely certain, your Majesty."

"Then what am I to do?"

"Give up the idea and mind your own business," advised the General. "You
have plenty to do trying to rule your underground kingdom."

"But I want that Magic Belt--and I'm going to have it!" roared the Nome
King.

"I'd like to see you get it," replied the General, laughing maliciously.

The King was by this time so exasperated that he picked up his scepter,
which had a heavy ball, made from a sapphire, at the end of it, and
threw it with all his force at General Blug. The sapphire hit the
General upon his forehead and knocked him flat upon the ground, where he
lay motionless. Then the King rang his gong and told his guards to drag
out the General and throw him away; which they did.

This Nome King was named Roquat the Red, and no one loved him. He was a
bad man and a powerful monarch, and he had resolved to destroy the Land
of Oz and its magnificent Emerald City, to enslave Princess Ozma and
little Dorothy and all the Oz people, and recover his Magic Belt. This
same Belt had once enabled Roquat the Red to carry out many wicked
plans; but that was before Ozma and her people marched to the
underground cavern and captured it. The Nome King could not forgive
Dorothy or Princess Ozma, and he had determined to be revenged upon
them.

But they, for their part, did not know they had so dangerous an enemy.
Indeed, Ozma and Dorothy had both almost forgotten that such a person as
the Nome King yet lived under the mountains of the Land of Ev--which lay
just across the deadly desert to the south of the Land of Oz.

An unsuspected enemy is doubly dangerous.

[Illustration]




_How_ UNCLE HENRY GOT INTO TROUBLE

CHAPTER TWO

[Illustration]


Dorothy Gale lived on a farm in Kansas, with her Aunt Em and her Uncle
Henry. It was not a big farm, nor a very good one, because sometimes the
rain did not come when the crops needed it, and then everything withered
and dried up. Once a cyclone had carried away Uncle Henry's house, so
that he was obliged to build another; and as he was a poor man he had to
mortgage his farm to get the money to pay for the new house. Then his
health became bad and he was too feeble to work. The doctor ordered him
to take a sea voyage and he went to Australia and took Dorothy with him.
That cost a lot of money, too.

Uncle Henry grew poorer every year, and the crops raised on the farm
only bought food for the family. Therefore the mortgage could not be
paid. At last the banker who had loaned him the money said that if he
did not pay on a certain day, his farm would be taken away from him.

This worried Uncle Henry a good deal, for without the farm he would have
no way to earn a living. He was a good man, and worked in the fields as
hard as he could; and Aunt Em did all the housework, with Dorothy's
help. Yet they did not seem to get along.

This little girl, Dorothy, was like dozens of little girls you know. She
was loving and usually sweet-tempered, and had a round rosy face and
earnest eyes. Life was a serious thing to Dorothy, and a wonderful
thing, too, for she had encountered more strange adventures in her short
life than many other girls of her age.

Aunt Em once said she thought the fairies must have marked Dorothy at
her birth, because she had wandered into strange places and had always
been protected by some unseen power. As for Uncle Henry, he thought his
little niece merely a dreamer, as her dead mother had been, for he could
not quite believe all the curious stories Dorothy told them of the Land
of Oz, which she had several times visited. He did not think that she
tried to deceive her uncle and aunt, but he imagined that she had
dreamed all of those astonishing adventures, and that the dreams had
been so real to her that she had come to believe them true.

Whatever the explanation might be, it was certain that Dorothy had been
absent from her Kansas home for several long periods, always
disappearing unexpectedly, yet always coming back safe and sound, with
amazing tales of where she had been and the unusual people she had met.
Her uncle and aunt listened to her stories eagerly and in spite of their
doubts began to feel that the little girl had gained a lot of experience
and wisdom that were unaccountable in this age, when fairies are
supposed no longer to exist.

Most of Dorothy's stories were about the Land of Oz, with its beautiful
Emerald City and a lovely girl Ruler named Ozma, who was the most
faithful friend of the little Kansas girl. When Dorothy told about the
riches of this fairy country Uncle Henry would sigh, for he knew that a
single one of the great emeralds that were so common there would pay all
his debts and leave his farm free. But Dorothy never brought any jewels
home with her, so their poverty became greater every year.

When the banker told Uncle Henry that he must pay the money in thirty
days or leave the farm, the poor man was in despair, as he knew he could
not possibly get the money. So he told his wife, Aunt Em, of his
trouble, and she first cried a little and then said that they must be
brave and do the best they could, and go away somewhere and try to earn
an honest living. But they were getting old and feeble and she feared
that they could not take care of Dorothy as well as they had formerly
done. Probably the little girl would also be obliged to go to work.

They did not tell their niece the sad news for several days, not wishing
to make her unhappy; but one morning the little girl found Aunt Em
softly crying while Uncle Henry tried to comfort her. Then Dorothy asked
them to tell her what was the matter.

"We must give up the farm, my dear," replied her uncle, sadly, "and
wander away into the world to work for our living."

The girl listened quite seriously, for she had not known before how
desperately poor they were.

"We don't mind for ourselves," said her aunt, stroking the little girl's
head tenderly; "but we love you as if you were our own child, and we are
heart-broken to think that you must also endure poverty, and work for a
living before you have grown big and strong."

"What could I do to earn money?" asked Dorothy.

"You might do housework for some one, dear, you are so handy; or perhaps
you could be a nurse-maid to little children. I'm sure I don't know
exactly what you _can_ do to earn money, but if your uncle and I are
able to support you we will do it willingly, and send you to school. We
fear, though, that we shall have much trouble in earning a living for
ourselves. No one wants to employ old people who are broken down in
health, as we are."

[Illustration]

Dorothy smiled.

"Wouldn't it be funny," she said, "for me to do housework in Kansas,
when I'm a Princess in the Land of Oz?"

"A Princess!" they both exclaimed, astonished.

"Yes; Ozma made me a Princess some time ago, and she has often begged me
to come and live always in the Emerald City," said the child.

Her uncle and aunt looked at each other in amazement. Then the man said:

"Do you suppose you could manage to return to your fairyland, my dear?"

"Oh, yes," replied Dorothy; "I could do that easily."

"How?" asked Aunt Em.

"Ozma sees me every day at four o'clock, in her Magic Picture. She can
see me wherever I am, no matter what I am doing. And at that time, if I
make a certain secret sign, she will send for me by means of the Magic
Belt, which I once captured from the Nome King. Then, in the wink of an
eye, I shall be with Ozma in her palace."

The elder people remained silent for some time after Dorothy had spoken.
Finally Aunt Em said, with another sigh of regret:

"If that is the case, Dorothy, perhaps you'd better go and live in the
Emerald City. It will break our hearts to lose you from our lives, but
you will be so much better off with your fairy friends that it seems
wisest and best for you to go."

"I'm not so sure about that," remarked Uncle Henry, shaking his gray
head doubtfully. "These things all seem real to Dorothy, I know; but I'm
afraid our little girl won't find her fairyland just what she has
dreamed it to be. It would make me very unhappy to think that she was
wandering among strangers who might be unkind to her."

Dorothy laughed merrily at this speech, and then she became very sober
again, for she could see how all this trouble was worrying her aunt and
uncle, and knew that unless she found a way to help them their future
lives would be quite miserable and unhappy. She knew that she _could_
help them. She had thought of a way already. Yet she did not tell them
at once what it was, because she must ask Ozma's consent before she
would be able to carry out her plans.

So she only said:

"If you will promise not to worry a bit about me, I'll go to the Land of
Oz this very afternoon. And I'll make a promise, too; that you shall
both see me again before the day comes when you must leave this farm."

"The day isn't far away, now," her uncle sadly replied. "I did not tell
you of our trouble until I was obliged to, dear Dorothy, so the evil
time is near at hand. But if you are quite sure your fairy friends will
give you a home, it will be best for you to go to them, as your aunt
says."

That was why Dorothy went to her little room in the attic that
afternoon, taking with her a small dog named Toto. The dog had curly
black hair and big brown eyes and loved Dorothy very dearly.

The child had kissed her uncle and aunt affectionately before she went
upstairs, and now she looked around her little room rather wistfully,
gazing at the simple trinkets and worn calico and gingham dresses, as if
they were old friends. She was tempted at first to make a bundle of
them, yet she knew very well that they would be of no use to her in her
future life.

She sat down upon a broken-backed chair--the only one the room
contained--and holding Toto in her arms waited patiently until the clock
struck four.

Then she made the secret signal that had been agreed upon between her
and Ozma.

Uncle Henry and Aunt Em waited downstairs. They were uneasy and a good
deal excited, for this is a practical humdrum world, and it seemed to
them quite impossible that their little niece could vanish from her home
and travel instantly to fairyland.

So they watched the stairs, which seemed to be the only way that Dorothy
could get out of the farmhouse, and they watched them a long time. They
heard the clock strike four, but there was no sound from above.

Half-past four came, and now they were too impatient to wait any longer.
Softly they crept up the stairs to the door of the little girl's room.

"Dorothy! Dorothy!" they called.

There was no answer.

They opened the door and looked in.

The room was empty.

[Illustration]




_How_ OZMA GRANTED DOROTHY'S REQUEST

CHAPTER THREE

[Illustration]


I suppose you have read so much about the magnificent Emerald City that
there is little need for me to describe it here. It is the Capital City
of the Land of Oz, which is justly considered the most attractive and
delightful fairyland in all the world.

The Emerald City is built all of beautiful marbles in which are set a
profusion of emeralds, every one exquisitely cut and of very great size.
There are other jewels used in the decorations inside the houses and
palaces, such as rubies, diamonds, sapphires, amethysts and turquoises.
But in the streets and upon the outside of the buildings only emeralds
appear, from which circumstance the place is named the Emerald City of
Oz. It has nine thousand, six hundred and fifty-four buildings, in which
lived fifty-seven thousand three hundred and eighteen people, up to the
time my story opens.

All the surrounding country, extending to the borders of the desert
which enclosed it upon every side, was full of pretty and comfortable
farmhouses, in which resided those inhabitants of Oz who preferred
country to city life.

Altogether there were more than half a million people in the Land of
Oz--although some of them, as you will soon learn, were not made of
flesh and blood as we are--and every inhabitant of that favored country
was happy and prosperous.

No disease of any sort was ever known among the Ozites, and so no one
ever died unless he met with an accident that prevented him from living.
This happened very seldom, indeed. There were no poor people in the Land
of Oz, because there was no such thing as money, and all property of
every sort belonged to the Ruler. The people were her children, and she
cared for them. Each person was given freely by his neighbors whatever
he required for his use, which is as much as any one may reasonably
desire. Some tilled the lands and raised great crops of grain, which was
divided equally among the entire population, so that all had enough.
There were many tailors and dressmakers and shoemakers and the like, who
made things that any who desired them might wear. Likewise there were
jewelers who made ornaments for the person, which pleased and beautified
the people, and these ornaments also were free to those who asked for
them. Each man and woman, no matter what he or she produced for the
good of the community, was supplied by the neighbors with food and
clothing and a house and furniture and ornaments and games. If by chance
the supply ever ran short, more was taken from the great storehouses of
the Ruler, which were afterward filled up again when there was more of
any article than the people needed.

Every one worked half the time and played half the time, and the people
enjoyed the work as much as they did the play, because it is good to be
occupied and to have something to do. There were no cruel overseers set
to watch them, and no one to rebuke them or to find fault with them. So
each one was proud to do all he could for his friends and neighbors, and
was glad when they would accept the things he produced.

You will know, by what I have here told you, that the Land of Oz was a
remarkable country. I do not suppose such an arrangement would be
practical with us, but Dorothy assures me that it works finely with the
Oz people.

Oz being a fairy country, the people were, of course, fairy people; but
that does not mean that all of them were very unlike the people of our
own world. There were all sorts of queer characters among them, but not
a single one who was evil, or who possessed a selfish or violent nature.
They were peaceful, kind-hearted, loving and merry, and every
inhabitant adored the beautiful girl who ruled them, and delighted to
obey her every command.

In spite of all I have said in a general way, there were some parts of
the Land of Oz not quite so pleasant as the farming country and the
Emerald City which was its center. Far away in the South Country there
lived in the mountains a band of strange people called Hammer-Heads,
because they had no arms and used their flat heads to pound any one who
came near them. Their necks were like rubber, so that they could shoot
out their heads to quite a distance, and afterward draw them back again
to their shoulders. The Hammer-Heads were called the "Wild People," but
never harmed any but those who disturbed them in the mountains where
they lived.

In some of the dense forests there lived great beasts of every sort; yet
these were for the most part harmless and even sociable, and conversed
agreeably with those who visited their haunts. The Kalidahs--beasts with
bodies like bears and heads like tigers--had once been fierce and
bloodthirsty, but even they were now nearly all tamed, although at times
one or another of them would get cross and disagreeable.

Not so tame were the Fighting Trees, which had a forest of their own. If
any one approached them these curious trees would bend down their
branches, twine them around the intruders, and hurl them away.

But these unpleasant things existed only in a few remote parts of the
Land of Oz. I suppose every country has some drawbacks, so even this
almost perfect fairyland could not be quite perfect. Once there had been
wicked witches in the land, too; but now these had all been destroyed;
so, as I said, only peace and happiness reigned in Oz.

For some time Ozma has ruled over this fair country, and never was Ruler
more popular or beloved. She is said to be the most beautiful girl the
world has ever known, and her heart and mind are as lovely as her
person.

Dorothy Gale had several times visited the Emerald City and experienced
adventures in the Land of Oz, so that she and Ozma had now become firm
friends. The girl Ruler had even made Dorothy a Princess of Oz, and had
often implored her to come to Ozma's stately palace and live there
always; but Dorothy had been loyal to her Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, who
had cared for her since she was a baby, and she had refused to leave
them because she knew they would be lonely without her.

However, Dorothy now realized that things were going to be different
with her uncle and aunt from this time forth, so after giving the matter
deep thought she decided to ask Ozma to grant her a very great favor.

A few seconds after she had made the secret signal in her little
bedchamber, the Kansas girl was seated in a lovely room in Ozma's
palace in the Emerald City of Oz. When the first loving kisses and
embraces had been exchanged, the fair Ruler inquired:

"What is the matter, dear? I know something unpleasant has happened to
you, for your face was very sober when I saw it in my Magic Picture. And
whenever you signal me to transport you to this safe place, where you
are always welcome, I know you are in danger or in trouble."

Dorothy sighed.

"This time, Ozma, it isn't I," she replied. "But it's worse, I guess,
for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em are in a heap of trouble, and there seems no
way for them to get out of it--anyhow, not while they live in Kansas."

"Tell me about it, Dorothy," said Ozma, with ready sympathy.

"Why, you see Uncle Henry is poor; for the farm in Kansas doesn't 'mount
to much, as farms go. So one day Uncle Henry borrowed some money, and
wrote a letter saying that if he didn't pay the money back they could
take his farm for pay. Course he 'spected to pay by making money from
the farm; but he just couldn't. An' so they're going to take the farm,
and Uncle Henry and Aunt Em won't have any place to live. They're pretty
old to do much hard work, Ozma; so I'll have to work for them,
unless--"

Ozma had been thoughtful during the story, but now she smiled and
pressed her little friend's hand.

"Unless what, dear?" she asked.

Dorothy hesitated, because her request meant so much to them all.

"Well," said she, "I'd like to live here in the Land of Oz, where you've
often 'vited me to live. But I can't, you know, unless Uncle Henry and
Aunt Em could live here too."

"Of course not," exclaimed the Ruler of Oz, laughing gaily. "So, in
order to get you, little friend, we must invite your Uncle and Aunt to
live in Oz, also."

"Oh, will you, Ozma?" cried Dorothy, clasping her chubby little hands
eagerly. "Will you bring them here with the Magic Belt, and give them a
nice little farm in the Munchkin Country, or the Winkie Country--or some
other place?"

"To be sure," answered Ozma, full of joy at the chance to please her
little friend. "I have long been thinking of this very thing, Dorothy
dear, and often I have had it in my mind to propose it to you. I am sure
your uncle and aunt must be good and worthy people, or you would not
love them so much; and for _your_ friends, Princess, there is always
room in the Land of Oz."

Dorothy was delighted, yet not altogether surprised, for she had clung
to the hope that Ozma would be kind enough to grant her request. When,
indeed, had her powerful and faithful friend refused her anything?

"But you must not call me 'Princess,'" she said; "for after this I shall
live on the little farm with Uncle Henry and Aunt Em, and princesses
ought not to live on farms."

"Princess Dorothy will not," replied Ozma, with her sweet smile. "You
are going to live in your own rooms in this palace, and be my constant
companion."

"But Uncle Henry--" began Dorothy.

"Oh, he is old, and has worked enough in his lifetime," interrupted the
girl Ruler; "so we must find a place for your uncle and aunt where they
will be comfortable and happy and need not work more than they care to.
When shall we transport them here, Dorothy?"

"I promised to go and see them again before they were turned out of the
farmhouse," answered Dorothy; "so--perhaps next Saturday--"

"But why wait so long?" asked Ozma. "And why make the journey back to
Kansas again? Let us surprise them, and bring them here without any
warning."

"I'm not sure that they believe in the Land of Oz," said Dorothy,
"though I've told 'em 'bout it lots of times."

"They'll believe when they see it," declared Ozma; "and if they are told
they are to make a magical journey to our fairyland, it may make them
nervous. I think the best way will be to use the Magic Belt without
warning them, and when they have arrived you can explain to them
whatever they do not understand."

"Perhaps that's best," decided Dorothy. "There isn't much use in their
staying at the farm until they are put out, 'cause it's much nicer
here."

[Illustration]

"Then to-morrow morning they shall come here," said Princess Ozma. "I
will order Jellia Jamb, who is the palace housekeeper, to have rooms all
prepared for them, and after breakfast we will get the Magic Belt and by
its aid transport your uncle and aunt to the Emerald City."

"Thank you, Ozma!" cried Dorothy, kissing her friend gratefully.

"And now," Ozma proposed, "let us take a walk in the gardens before we
dress for dinner. Come, Dorothy dear!"

[Illustration]




_How_ THE NOME KING PLANNED REVENGE

CHAPTER FOUR

[Illustration]


The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good.
Now, the Nome King had never tried to be good, so he was very bad
indeed. Having decided to conquer the Land of Oz and to destroy the
Emerald City and enslave all its people, King Roquat the Red kept
planning ways to do this dreadful thing, and the more he planned the
more he believed he would be able to accomplish it.

About the time Dorothy went to Ozma the Nome King called his Chief
Steward to him and said:

"Kaliko, I think I shall make you the General of my armies."

"I think you won't," replied Kaliko, positively.

"Why not?" inquired the King, reaching for his scepter with the big
sapphire.

"Because I'm your Chief Steward, and know nothing of warfare," said
Kaliko, preparing to dodge if anything were thrown at him. "I manage all
the affairs of your kingdom better than you could yourself, and you'll
never find another Steward as good as I am. But there are a hundred
Nomes better fitted to command your army, and your Generals get thrown
away so often that I have no desire to be one of them."

"Ah, there is some truth in your remarks, Kaliko," remarked the King,
deciding not to throw the scepter. "Summon my army to assemble in the
Great Cavern."

Kaliko bowed and retired, and in a few minutes returned to say that the
army was assembled. So the King went out upon a balcony that overlooked
the Great Cavern, where fifty thousand Nomes, all armed with swords and
pikes, stood marshaled in military array.

When they were not required as soldiers all these Nomes were metal
workers and miners, and they had hammered so much at the forges and dug
so hard with pick and shovel that they had acquired great muscular
strength. They were strangely formed creatures, rather round and not
very tall. Their toes were curly and their ears broad and flat.

In time of war every Nome left his forge or mine and became part of the
great army of King Roquat. The soldiers wore rock-colored uniforms and
were excellently drilled.

The King looked upon this tremendous army, which stood silently arrayed
before him, and a cruel smile curled the corners of his mouth, for he
saw that his legions were very powerful. Then he addressed them from the
balcony, saying:

"I have thrown away General Blug, because he did not please me. So I
want another General to command this army. Who is next in command?"

"I am," replied Colonel Crinkle, a dapper-looking Nome, as he stepped
forward to salute his monarch.

The King looked at him carefully and said:

"I want you to march this army through an underground tunnel, which I am
going to bore, to the Emerald City of Oz. When you get there I want you
to conquer the Oz people, destroy them and their city, and bring all
their gold and silver and precious stones back to my cavern. Also you
are to recapture my Magic Belt and return it to me. Will you do this,
General Crinkle?"

"No, your Majesty," replied the Nome; "for it can't be done."

"Oh, indeed!" exclaimed the King. Then he turned to his servants and
said: "Please take General Crinkle to the torture chamber. There you
will kindly slice him into thin slices. Afterward you may feed him to
the seven-headed dogs."

"Anything to oblige your Majesty," replied the servants, politely, and
led the condemned man away.

When they had gone the King addressed the army again.

"Listen!" said he. "The General who is to command my armies must promise
to carry out my orders. If he fails he will share the fate of poor
Crinkle. Now, then, who will volunteer to lead my hosts to the Emerald
City?"

For a time no one moved and all were silent. Then an old Nome with white
whiskers so long that they were tied around his waist to prevent their
tripping him up, stepped out of the ranks and saluted the King.

"I'd like to ask a few questions, your Majesty," he said.

"Go ahead," replied the King.

"These Oz people are quite good, are they not?"

"As good as apple pie," said the King.

"And they are happy, I suppose?" continued the old Nome.

"Happy as the day is long," said the King.

"And contented and prosperous?" inquired the Nome.

"Very much so," said the King.

"Well, your Majesty," remarked he of the white whiskers, "I think I
should like to undertake the job, so I'll be your General. I hate good
people; I detest happy people; I'm opposed to any one who is contented
and prosperous. That is why I am so fond of your Majesty. Make me your
General and I'll promise to conquer and destroy the Oz people. If I fail
I'm ready to be sliced thin and fed to the seven-headed dogs."

"Very good! Very good, indeed! That's the way to talk!" cried Roquat the
Red, who was greatly pleased. "What is your name, General?"

[Illustration]

"I'm called Guph, your Majesty."

"Well, Guph, come with me to my private cave and we'll talk it over."
Then he turned to the army. "Nomes and soldiers," said he, "you are to
obey the commands of General Guph until he becomes dog-feed. Any man who
fails to obey his new General will be promptly thrown away. You are now
dismissed."

Guph went to the King's private cave and sat down upon an amethyst chair
and put his feet on the arm of the King's ruby throne. Then he lighted
his pipe and threw the live coal he had taken from his pocket upon the
King's left foot and puffed the smoke into the King's eyes and made
himself comfortable. For he was a wise old Nome, and he knew that the
best way to get along with Roquat the Red was to show that he was not
afraid of him.

"I'm ready for the talk, your Majesty," he said.

The King coughed and looked at his new General fiercely.

"Do you not tremble to take such liberties with your monarch?" he asked.

"Oh, no," said Guph, calmly, and he blew a wreath of smoke that curled
around the King's nose and made him sneeze. "You want to conquer the
Emerald City, and I'm the only Nome in all your dominions who can
conquer it. So you will be very careful not to hurt me until I have
carried out your wishes. After that--"

"Well, what then?" inquired the King.

"Then you will be so grateful to me that you won't care to hurt me,"
replied the General.

"That is a very good argument," said Roquat. "But suppose you fail?"

"Then it's the slicing machine. I agree to that," announced Guph. "But
if you do as I tell you there will be no failure. The trouble with you,
Roquat, is that you don't think carefully enough. I do. You would go
ahead and march through your tunnel into Oz, and get defeated and driven
back. I won't. And the reason I won't is because when I march I'll have
all my plans made, and a host of allies to assist my Nomes."

[Illustration]

"What do you mean by that?" asked the King.

"I'll explain, King Roquat. You're going to attack a fairy country, and
a mighty fairy country, too. They haven't much of an army in Oz, but the
Princess who rules them has a fairy wand; and the little girl Dorothy
has your Magic Belt; and at the North of the Emerald City lives a clever
sorceress called Glinda the Good, who commands the spirits of the air.
Also I have heard that there is a wonderful Wizard in Ozma's palace, who
is so skillful that people used to pay him money in America to see him
perform. So you see it will be no easy thing to overcome all this
magic."

"We have fifty thousand soldiers!" cried the King, proudly.

"Yes; but they are Nomes," remarked Guph, taking a silk handkerchief
from the King's pocket and wiping his own pointed shoes with it. "Nomes
are immortals, but they are not strong on magic. When you lost your
famous Belt the greater part of your own power was gone from you.
Against Ozma you and your Nomes would have no show at all."

Roquat's eyes flashed angrily.

"Then away you go to the slicing machine!" he cried.

"Not yet," said the General, filling his pipe from the King's private
tobacco pouch.

"What do you propose to do?" asked the monarch.

"I propose to obtain the power we need," answered Guph. "There are a
good many evil creatures who have magic powers sufficient to destroy and
conquer the Land of Oz. We will get them on our side, band them all
together, and then take Ozma and her people by surprise. It's all very
simple and easy when you know how. Alone we should be helpless to
injure the Ruler of Oz, but with the aid of the evil powers we can
summon we shall easily succeed."

King Roquat was delighted with this idea, for he realized how clever it
was.

"Surely, Guph, you are the greatest General I have ever had!" he
exclaimed, his eyes sparkling with joy. "You must go at once and make
arrangements with the evil powers to assist us, and meantime I'll begin
to dig the tunnel."

"I thought you'd agree with me, Roquat," replied the new General. "I'll
start this very afternoon to visit the Chief of the Whimsies."

[Illustration]




_How_ DOROTHY BECAME A PRINCESS

CHAPTER FIVE

[Illustration]


When the people of the Emerald City heard that Dorothy had returned to
them every one was eager to see her, for the little girl was a general
favorite in the Land of Oz. From time to time some of the folk from the
great outside world had found their way into this fairyland, but all
except one had been companions of Dorothy and had turned out to be very
agreeable people. The exception I speak of was the wonderful Wizard of
Oz, a sleight-of-hand performer from Omaha who went up in a balloon and
was carried by a current of air to the Emerald City. His queer and
puzzling tricks made the people of Oz believe him a great wizard for
a time, and he ruled over them until Dorothy arrived on her first
visit and showed the Wizard to be a mere humbug. He was a gentle,
kindly-hearted little man, and Dorothy grew to like him afterward. When,
after an absence, the Wizard returned to the Land of Oz, Ozma received
him graciously and gave him a home in a part of the palace.

In addition to the Wizard two other personages from the outside world
had been allowed to make their home in the Emerald City. The first was a
quaint Shaggy Man, whom Ozma had made the Governor of the Royal
Storehouses, and the second a Yellow Hen named Billina, who had a fine
house in the gardens back of the palace, where she looked after a large
family. Both these had been old comrades of Dorothy, so you see the
little girl was quite an important personage in Oz, and the people
thought she had brought them good luck, and loved her next best to Ozma.
During her several visits this little girl had been the means of
destroying two wicked witches who oppressed the people, and she had
discovered a live scarecrow who was now one of the most popular
personages in all the fairy country. With the Scarecrow's help she had
rescued Nick Chopper, a Tin Woodman, who had rusted in a lonely forest,
and the tin man was now the Emperor of the Country of the Winkies and
much beloved because of his kind heart. No wonder the people thought
Dorothy had brought them good luck! Yet, strange as it may seem, she had
accomplished all these wonders not because she was a fairy or had any
magical powers whatever, but because she was a simple, sweet and true
little girl who was honest to herself and to all whom she met. In this
world in which we live simplicity and kindness are the only magic wands
that work wonders, and in the Land of Oz Dorothy found these same
qualities had won for her the love and admiration of the people. Indeed,
the little girl had made many warm friends in the fairy country, and the
only real grief the Ozites had ever experienced was when Dorothy left
them and returned to her Kansas home.

Now she received a joyful welcome, although no one except Ozma knew at
first that she had finally come to stay for good and all.

That evening Dorothy had many callers, and among them were such
important people as Tiktok, a machine man who thought and spoke and
moved by clockwork; her old companion the genial Shaggy Man; Jack
Pumpkinhead, whose body was brush-wood and whose head was a ripe pumpkin
with a face carved upon it; the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, two
great beasts from the forest, who served Princess Ozma, and Professor H.
M. Wogglebug, T. E. This wogglebug was a remarkable creature. He had
once been a tiny little bug, crawling around in a school-room, but he
was discovered and highly magnified so that he could be seen more
plainly, and while in this magnified condition he had escaped. He had
always remained big, and he dressed like a dandy and was so full of
knowledge and information (which are distinct acquirements), that he
had been made a Professor and the head of the Royal College.

Dorothy had a nice visit with these old friends, and also talked a long
time with the Wizard, who was little and old and withered and dried up,
but as merry and active as a child. Afterward she went to see Billina's
fast growing family of chicks.

Toto, Dorothy's little black dog, also met with a cordial reception.
Toto was an especial friend of the Shaggy Man, and he knew every one
else. Being the only dog in the Land of Oz, he was highly respected by
the people, who believed animals entitled to every consideration if they
behaved themselves properly.

Dorothy had four lovely rooms in the palace, which were always reserved
for her use and were called "Dorothy's rooms." These consisted of a
beautiful sitting room, a dressing room, a dainty bedchamber and a big
marble bathroom. And in these rooms were everything that heart could
desire, placed there with loving thoughtfulness by Ozma for her little
friend's use. The royal dressmakers had the little girl's measure, so
they kept the closets in her dressing room filled with lovely dresses of
every description and suitable for every occasion. No wonder Dorothy had
refrained from bringing with her her old calico and gingham dresses!
Here everything that was dear to a little girl's heart was supplied in
profusion, and nothing so rich and beautiful could ever have been found
in the biggest department stores in America. Of course Dorothy enjoyed
all these luxuries, and the only reason she had heretofore preferred to
live in Kansas was because her uncle and aunt loved her and needed her
with them.

Now, however, all was to be changed, and Dorothy was really more
delighted to know that her dear relatives were to share in her good
fortune and enjoy the delights of the Land of Oz, than she was to
possess such luxury for herself.

Next morning, at Ozma's request, Dorothy dressed herself in a pretty
sky-blue gown of rich silk, trimmed with real pearls. The buckles of her
shoes were set with pearls, too, and more of these priceless gems were
on a lovely coronet which she wore upon her forehead.

"For," said her friend Ozma, "from this time forth, my dear, you must
assume your rightful rank as a Princess of Oz, and being my chosen
companion you must dress in a way befitting the dignity of your
position."

Dorothy agreed to this, although she knew that neither gowns nor jewels
could make her anything else than the simple, unaffected little girl she
had always been.

As soon as they had breakfasted--the girls eating together in Ozma's
pretty boudoir--the Ruler of Oz said:

"Now, dear friend, we will use the Magic Belt to transport your uncle
and aunt from Kansas to the Emerald City. But I think it would be
fitting, in receiving such distinguished guests, for us to sit in my
Throne Room."

"Oh, they're not very 'stinguished, Ozma," said Dorothy. "They're just
plain people, like me."

"Being your friends and relatives, Princess Dorothy, they are certainly
distinguished," replied the Ruler, with a smile.

"They--they won't hardly know what to make of all your splendid
furniture and things," protested Dorothy, gravely. "It may scare 'em to
see your grand Throne Room, an' p'raps we'd better go into the back
yard, Ozma, where the cabbages grow an' the chickens are playing. Then
it would seem more natural to Uncle Henry and Aunt Em."

"No; they shall first see me in my Throne Room," replied Ozma,
decidedly; and when she spoke in that tone Dorothy knew it was not wise
to oppose her, for Ozma was accustomed to having her own way.

So together they went to the Throne Room, an immense domed chamber in
the center of the palace. Here stood the royal throne, made of solid
gold and encrusted with enough precious stones to stock a dozen jewelry
stores in our country.

Ozma, who was wearing the Magic Belt, seated herself in the throne, and
Dorothy sat at her feet. In the room were assembled many ladies and
gentlemen of the court, clothed in rich apparel and wearing fine
jewelry. Two immense animals squatted, one on each side of the
throne--the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger. In a balcony high up in
the dome an orchestra played sweet music, and beneath the dome two
electric fountains sent sprays of colored perfumed water shooting up
nearly as high as the arched ceiling.

"Are you ready, Dorothy?" asked the Ruler.

"I am," replied Dorothy; "but I don't know whether Aunt Em and Uncle
Henry are ready."

"That won't matter," declared Ozma. "The old life can have very little
to interest them, and the sooner they begin the new life here the
happier they will be. Here they come, my dear!"

As she spoke, there before the throne appeared Uncle Henry and Aunt Em,
who for a moment stood motionless, glaring with white and startled faces
at the scene that confronted them. If the ladies and gentlemen present
had not been so polite I am sure they would have laughed at the two
strangers.

Aunt Em had her calico dress skirt "tucked up," and she wore a faded
blue-checked apron. Her hair was rather straggly and she had on a pair
of Uncle Henry's old slippers. In one hand she held a dish-towel and in
the other a cracked earthenware plate, which she had been engaged in
wiping when so suddenly transported to the Land of Oz.

[Illustration]

Uncle Henry, when the summons came, had been out in the barn "doin'
chores." He wore a ragged and much soiled straw hat, a checked shirt
without any collar and blue overalls tucked into the tops of his old
cowhide boots.

"By gum!" gasped Uncle Henry, looking around as if bewildered.

"Well, I swan!" gurgled Aunt Em, in a hoarse, frightened voice. Then her
eyes fell upon Dorothy, and she said: "D-d-d-don't that look like our
little girl--our Dorothy, Henry?"

"Hi, there--look out, Em!" exclaimed the old man, as Aunt Em advanced a
step; "take care o' the wild beastses, or you're a goner!"

But now Dorothy sprang forward and embraced and kissed her aunt and
uncle affectionately, afterward taking their hands in her own.

"Don't be afraid," she said to them. "You are now in the Land of Oz,
where you are to live always, and be comfer'ble an' happy. You'll never
have to worry over anything again, 'cause there won't be anything to
worry about. And you owe it all to the kindness of my friend Princess
Ozma."

Here she led them before the throne and continued:

"Your Highness, this is Uncle Henry. And this is Aunt Em. They want to
thank you for bringing them here from Kansas."

Aunt Em tried to "slick" her hair, and she hid the dish-towel and dish
under her apron while she bowed to the lovely Ozma. Uncle Henry took off
his straw hat and held it awkwardly in his hands.

But the Ruler of Oz rose and came from her throne to greet her newly
arrived guests, and she smiled as sweetly upon them as if they had been
a king and a queen.

"You are very welcome here, where I have brought you for Princess
Dorothy's sake," she said, graciously, "and I hope you will be quite
happy in your new home." Then she turned to her courtiers, who were
silently and gravely regarding the scene, and added: "I present to my
people our Princess Dorothy's beloved Uncle Henry and Aunt Em, who will
hereafter be subjects of our kingdom. It will please me to have you show
them every kindness and honor in your power, and to join me in making
them happy and contented."

Hearing this, all those assembled bowed low and respectfully to the old
farmer and his wife, who bobbed their own heads in return.

"And now," said Ozma to them, "Dorothy will show you the rooms prepared
for you. I hope you will like them, and shall expect you to join me at
luncheon."

So Dorothy led her relatives away, and as soon as they were out of the
Throne Room and alone in the corridor Aunt Em squeezed Dorothy's hand
and said:

"Child, child! How in the world did we ever get here so quick? And is it
all real? And are we to stay here, as she says? And what does it all
mean, anyhow?"

Dorothy laughed.

"Why didn't you tell us what you were goin' to do?" inquired Uncle
Henry, reproachfully. "If I'd known about it I'd 'a put on my Sunday
clothes."

[Illustration]

"I'll 'splain ever'thing as soon as we get to your rooms," promised
Dorothy. "You're in great luck, Uncle Henry and Aunt Em; an' so am I!
And oh! I'm so happy to have got you here, at last!"

As he walked by the little girl's side Uncle Henry stroked his whiskers
thoughtfully.

"'Pears to me, Dorothy, we won't make bang-up fairies," he remarked.

"An' my back hair looks like a fright!" wailed Aunt Em.

"Never mind," returned the little girl, reassuringly. "You won't have
anything to do now but to look pretty, Aunt Em; an' Uncle Henry won't
have to work till his back aches, that's certain."

"Sure?" they asked, wonderingly, and in the same breath.

"Course I'm sure," said Dorothy. "You're in the Fairyland of Oz, now;
an' what's more, you belong to it!"

[Illustration]




_How_ GUPH VISITED THE WHIMSIES

CHAPTER SIX

[Illustration]


The new General of the Nome King's army knew perfectly well that to fail
in his plans meant death for him. Yet he was not at all anxious or
worried. He hated every one who was good and longed to make all who were
happy unhappy. Therefore he had accepted this dangerous position as
General quite willingly, feeling sure in his evil mind that he would be
able to do a lot of mischief and finally conquer the Land of Oz.

Yet Guph determined to be careful, and to lay his plans well, so as not
to fail. He argued that only careless people fail in what they attempt
to do.

The mountains underneath which the Nome King's extensive caverns were
located lay grouped just north of the Land of Ev, which lay directly
across the deadly desert to the east of the Land of Oz. As the mountains
were also on the edge of the desert the Nome King found that he had
only to tunnel underneath the desert to reach Ozma's dominions. He did
not wish his armies to appear above ground in the Country of the
Winkies, which was the part of the Land of Oz nearest to King Roquat's
own country, as then the people would give the alarm and enable Ozma to
fortify the Emerald City and assemble an army. He wanted to take all the
Oz people by surprise; so he decided to run the tunnel clear through to
the Emerald City, where he and his hosts could break through the ground
without warning and conquer the people before they had time to defend
themselves.

Roquat the Red began work at once upon his tunnel, setting a thousand
miners at the task and building it high and broad enough for his armies
to march through it with ease. The Nomes were used to making tunnels, as
all the kingdom in which they lived was under ground; so they made rapid
progress.

While this work was going on General Guph started out alone to visit the
Chief of the Whimsies.

These Whimsies were curious people who lived in a retired country of
their own. They had large, strong bodies, but heads so small that they
were no bigger than door-knobs. Of course, such tiny heads could not
contain any great amount of brains, and the Whimsies were so ashamed of
their personal appearance and lack of commonsense that they wore big
heads, made of pasteboard, which they fastened over their own little
heads. On these pasteboard heads they sewed sheep's wool for hair, and
the wool was colored many tints--pink, green and lavender being the
favorite colors.

The faces of these false heads were painted in many ridiculous ways,
according to the whims of the owners, and these big, burly creatures
looked so whimsical and absurd in their queer masks that they were
called "Whimsies." They foolishly imagined that no one would suspect the
little heads that were inside the imitation ones, not knowing that it is
folly to try to appear otherwise than as nature has made us.

The Chief of the Whimsies had as little wisdom as the others, and had
been chosen chief merely because none among them was any wiser or more
capable of ruling. The Whimsies were evil spirits and could not be
killed. They were hated and feared by every one and were known as
terrible fighters because they were so strong and muscular and had not
sense enough to know when they were defeated.

General Guph thought the Whimsies would be a great help to the Nomes in
the conquest of Oz, for under his leadership they could be induced to
fight as long so they could stand up. So he traveled to their country
and asked to see the Chief, who lived in a house that had a picture of
his grotesque false head painted over the doorway.

The Chief's false head had blue hair, a turned-up nose, and a mouth that
stretched half across the face. Big green eyes had been painted upon it,
but in the center of the chin were two small holes made in the
pasteboard, so that the Chief could see through them with his own tiny
eyes; for when the big head was fastened upon his shoulders the eyes in
his own natural head were on a level with the false chin.

Said General Guph to the Chief of the Whimsies:

"We Nomes are going to conquer the Land of Oz and capture our King's
Magic Belt, which the Oz people stole from him. Then we are going to
plunder and destroy the whole country. And we want the Whimsies to help
us."

"Will there be any fighting?" asked the Chief.

"Plenty," replied Guph.

That must have pleased the Chief, for he got up and danced around the
room three times. Then he seated himself again, adjusted his false head,
and said:

"We have no quarrel with Ozma of Oz."

"But you Whimsies love to fight, and here is a splendid chance to do
so," urged Guph.

"Wait till I sing a song," said the Chief. Then he lay back in his chair
and sang a foolish song that did not seem to the General to mean
anything, although he listened carefully. When he had finished, the
Chief Whimsie looked at him through the holes in his chin and asked:

"What reward will you give us if we help you?"

The General was prepared for this question, for he had been thinking the
matter over on his journey. People often do a good deed without hope of
reward, but for an evil deed they always demand payment.

[Illustration]

"When we get our Magic Belt," he made reply, "our King, Roquat the Red,
will use its power to give every Whimsie a natural head as big and fine
as the false head he now wears. Then you will no longer be ashamed
because your big strong bodies have such teenty-weenty heads."

"Oh! Will you do that?" asked the Chief, eagerly.

"We surely will," promised the General.

"I'll talk to my people," said the Chief.

So he called a meeting of all the Whimsies and told them of the offer
made by the Nomes. The creatures were delighted with the bargain, and at
once agreed to fight for the Nome King and help him to conquer Oz.

[Illustration]

One Whimsie alone seemed to have a glimmer of sense, for he asked:

"Suppose we fail to capture the Magic Belt? What will happen then, and
what good will all our fighting do?"

But they threw him into the river for asking foolish questions, and
laughed when the water ruined his pasteboard head before he could swim
out again.

So the compact was made and General Guph was delighted with his success
in gaining such powerful allies.

But there were other people, too, just as important as the Whimsies,
whom the clever old Nome had determined to win to his side.

[Illustration]




_How_ AUNT EM CONQUERED THE LION

CHAPTER SEVEN

[Illustration]


"These are your rooms," said Dorothy, opening a door.

Aunt Em drew back at sight of the splendid furniture and draperies.

"Ain't there any place to wipe my feet?" she asked.

"You will soon change your slippers for new shoes," replied Dorothy.
"Don't be afraid, Aunt Em. Here is where you are to live, so walk right
in and make yourself at home."

Aunt Em advanced hesitatingly.

"It beats the Topeka Hotel!" she cried, admiringly. "But this place is
too grand for us, child. Can't we have some back room in the attic,
that's more in our class?"

"No," said Dorothy. "You've got to live here, 'cause Ozma says so. And
all the rooms in this palace are just as fine as these, and some are
better. It won't do any good to fuss, Aunt Em. You've got to be swell
and high-toned in the Land of Oz, whether you want to or not; so you
may as well make up your mind to it."

"It's hard luck," replied her aunt, looking around with an awed
expression; "but folks can get used to anything, if they try. Eh,
Henry?"

"Why, as to that," said Uncle Henry, slowly, "I b'lieve in takin' what's
pervided us, an' askin' no questions. I've traveled some, Em, in my
time, and you hain't; an' that makes a difference atween us."

Then Dorothy showed them through the rooms. The first was a handsome
sitting-room, with windows opening upon the rose gardens. Then came
separate bedrooms for Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, with a fine bathroom
between them. Aunt Em had a pretty dressing room, besides, and Dorothy
opened the closets and showed several exquisite costumes that had been
provided for her aunt by the royal dressmakers, who had worked all night
to get them ready. Everything that Aunt Em could possibly need was in
the drawers and closets, and her dressing-table was covered with
engraved gold toilet articles.

Uncle Henry had nine suits of clothes, cut in the popular Munchkin
fashion, with knee-breeches, silk stockings and low shoes with jeweled
buckles. The hats to match these costumes had pointed tops and wide
brims with small gold bells around the edges. His shirts were of fine
linen with frilled bosoms, and his vests were richly embroidered with
colored silks.

Uncle Henry decided that he would first take a bath and then dress
himself in a blue satin suit that had caught his fancy. He accepted his
good fortune with calm composure and refused to have a servant to assist
him. But Aunt Em was "all of a flutter," as she said, and it took
Dorothy and Jellia Jamb, the housekeeper, and two maids a long time to
dress her and do up her hair and get her "rigged like a popinjay," as
she quaintly expressed it. She wanted to stop and admire everything that
caught her eye, and she sighed continually and declared that such finery
was too good for an old country woman, and that she never thought she
would have to "put on airs" at her time of life.

Finally she was dressed, and when they went into the sitting-room there
was Uncle Henry in his blue satin, walking gravely up and down the room.
He had trimmed his beard and mustache and looked very dignified and
respectable.

"Tell me, Dorothy," he said; "do all the men here wear duds like these?"

"Yes," she replied; "all 'cept the Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man--and of
course the Tin Woodman and Tiktok, who are made of metal. You'll find
all the men at Ozma's court dressed just as you are--only perhaps a
little finer."

"Henry, you look like a play-actor," announced Aunt Em, looking at her
husband critically.

"An' you, Em, look more highfalutin' than a peacock," he replied.

"I guess you're right," she said, regretfully; "but we're helpless
victims of high-toned royalty."

Dorothy was much amused.

[Illustration]

"Come with me," she said, "and I'll show you 'round the palace."

She took them through the beautiful rooms and introduced them to all the
people they chanced to meet. Also she showed them her own pretty rooms,
which were not far from their own.

"So it's all true," said Aunt Em, wide-eyed with amazement, "and what
Dorothy told us of this fairy country was plain facts instead of dreams!
But where are all the strange creatures you used to know here?"

"Yes; where's the Scarecrow?" inquired Uncle Henry.

"Why, he's just now away on a visit to the Tin Woodman, who is Emp'ror
of the Winkie Country," answered the little girl. "You'll see him when
he comes back, and you're sure to like him."

"And where's the Wonderful Wizard?" asked Aunt Em.

"You'll see him at Ozma's luncheon, for he lives in this palace," was
the reply.

"And Jack Pumpkinhead?"

"Oh, he lives a little way out of town, in his own pumpkin field. We'll
go there some time and see him, and we'll call on Professor Wogglebug,
too. The Shaggy Man will be at the luncheon, I guess, and Tiktok. And
now I'll take you out to see Billina, who has a house of her own."

So they went into the back yard, and after walking along winding paths
some distance through the beautiful gardens they came to an attractive
little house where the Yellow Hen sat on the front porch sunning
herself.

"Good morning, my dear Mistress," called Billina, fluttering down to
meet them. "I was expecting you to call, for I heard you had come back
and brought your uncle and aunt with you."

"We're here for good and all, this time, Billina," cried Dorothy,
joyfully. "Uncle Henry and Aunt Em belong in Oz now as much as I do!"

"Then they are very lucky people," declared Billina; "for there couldn't
be a nicer place to live. But come, my dear; I must show you all my
Dorothys. Nine are living and have grown up to be very respectable hens;
but one took cold at Ozma's birthday party and died of the pip, and the
other two turned out to be horrid roosters, so I had to change their
names from Dorothy to Daniel. They all had the letter 'D' engraved upon
their gold lockets, you remember, with your picture inside, and 'D'
stands for Daniel as well as for Dorothy."

"Did you call both the roosters Daniel?" asked Uncle Henry.

"Yes, indeed. I've nine Dorothys and two Daniels; and the nine
Dorothys have eighty-six sons and daughters and over three hundred
grandchildren," said Billina, proudly.

"What names do you give 'em all, dear?" inquired the little girl.

"Oh, they are all Dorothys and Daniels, some being Juniors and some
Double-Juniors. Dorothy and Daniel are two good names, and I see no
object in hunting for others," declared the Yellow Hen. "But just think,
Dorothy, what a big chicken family we've grown to be, and our numbers
increase nearly every day! Ozma doesn't know what to do with all the
eggs we lay, and we are never eaten or harmed in any way, as chickens
are in your country. They give us everything to make us contented and
happy, and I, my dear, am the acknowledged Queen and Governor of every
chicken in Oz, because I'm the eldest and started the whole colony."

"You ought to be very proud, ma'am," said Uncle Henry, who was
astonished to hear a hen talk so sensibly.

"Oh, I am," she replied. "I've the loveliest pearl necklace you ever
saw. Come in the house and I'll show it to you. And I've nine leg
bracelets and a diamond pin for each wing. But I only wear them on state
occasions."

They followed the Yellow Hen into the house, which Aunt Em declared was
neat as a pin. They could not sit down, because all Billina's chairs
were roosting-poles made of silver; so they had to stand while the hen
fussily showed them her treasures.

Then they had to go into the back rooms occupied by Billina's nine
Dorothys and two Daniels, who were all plump yellow chickens and greeted
the visitors very politely. It was easy to see that they were well bred
and that Billina had looked after their education.

In the yards were all the children and grandchildren of these eleven
elders and they were of all sizes, from well-grown hens to tiny chickens
just out of the shell. About fifty fluffy yellow youngsters were at
school, being taught good manners and good grammar by a young hen who
wore spectacles. They sang in chorus a patriotic song of the Land of Oz,
in honor of their visitors, and Aunt Em was much impressed by these
talking chickens.

Dorothy wanted to stay and play with the young chickens for awhile, but
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em had not seen the palace grounds and gardens yet
and were eager to get better acquainted with the marvelous and
delightful land in which they were to live.

"I'll stay here, and you can go for a walk," said Dorothy. "You'll be
perfec'ly safe anywhere, and may do whatever you want to. When you get
tired, go back to the palace and find your rooms, and I'll come to you
before luncheon is ready."

So Uncle Henry and Aunt Em started out alone to explore the grounds, and
Dorothy knew that they couldn't get lost, because all the palace grounds
were enclosed by a high wall of green marble set with emeralds.

It was a rare treat to these simple folk, who had lived in the country
all their lives and known little enjoyment of any sort, to wear
beautiful clothes and live in a palace and be treated with respect and
consideration by all around them. They were very happy indeed as they
strolled up the shady walks and looked upon the gorgeous flowers and
shrubs, feeling that their new home was more beautiful than any tongue
could describe.

Suddenly, as they turned a corner and walked through a gap in a high
hedge, they came face to face with an enormous Lion, which crouched upon
the green lawn and seemed surprised by their appearance.

They stopped short, Uncle Henry trembling with horror and Aunt Em too
terrified to scream. Next moment the poor woman clasped her husband
around the neck and cried:

"Save me, Henry, save me!"

"Can't even save myself, Em," he returned, in a husky voice, "for the
animile looks as if it could eat both of us, an' lick its chops for
more! If I only had a gun--"

"Haven't you, Henry? Haven't you?" she asked anxiously.

"Nary gun, Em. So let's die as brave an' graceful as we can. I knew our
luck couldn't last!"

"I won't die. I won't be eaten by a lion!" wailed Aunt Em, glaring upon
the huge beast. Then a thought struck her, and she whispered: "Henry,
I've heard as savage beastses can be conquered by the human eye. I'll
eye that lion out o' countenance an' save our lives."

"Try it, Em," he returned, also in a whisper. "Look at him as you do at
me when I'm late to dinner."

Aunt Em turned upon the Lion a determined countenance and a wild
dilated eye. She glared at the immense beast steadily, and the Lion, who
had been quietly blinking at them, began to appear uneasy and disturbed.

[Illustration]

"Is anything the matter, ma'am?" he asked, in a mild voice.

At this speech from the terrible beast Aunt Em and Uncle Henry both were
startled, and then Uncle Henry remembered that this must be the Lion
they had seen in Ozma's Throne Room.

"Hold on, Em!" he exclaimed. "Quit the eagle eye conquest an' take
courage. I guess this is the same Cowardly Lion Dorothy has told us
about."

"Oh, is it?" she asked, much relieved.

"When he spoke, I got the idea; and when he looked so 'shamed like, I
was sure of it," Uncle Henry continued.

Aunt Em regarded the animal with new interest.

"Are you the Cowardly Lion?" she inquired. "Are you Dorothy's friend?"

"Yes'm," answered the Lion, meekly. "Dorothy and I are old chums and are
very fond of each other. I'm the King of Beasts, you know, and the
Hungry Tiger and I serve Princess Ozma as her body guards."

"To be sure," said Aunt Em, nodding. "But the King of Beasts shouldn't
be cowardly."

"I've heard that said before," remarked the Lion, yawning till he
showed his two great rows of sharp white teeth; "but that does not keep
me from being frightened whenever I go into battle."

"What do you do, run?" asked Uncle Henry.

"No; that would be foolish, for the enemy would run after me," declared
the Lion. "So I tremble with fear and pitch in as hard as I can; and so
far I have always won my fight."

"Ah, I begin to understand," said Uncle Henry.

"Were you scared when I looked at you just now?" inquired Aunt Em.

"Terribly scared, madam," answered the Lion, "for at first I thought you
were going to have a fit. Then I noticed you were trying to overcome me
by the power of your eye, and your glance was so fierce and penetrating
that I shook with fear."

This greatly pleased the lady, and she said quite cheerfully:

"Well, I won't hurt you, so don't be scared any more. I just wanted to
see what the human eye was good for."

"The human eye is a fearful weapon," remarked the Lion, scratching his
nose softly with his paw to hide a smile. "Had I not known you were
Dorothy's friends I might have torn you both into shreds in order to
escape your terrible gaze."

Aunt Em shuddered at hearing this, and Uncle Henry said hastily:

"I'm glad you knew us. Good morning, Mr. Lion; we'll hope to see you
again--by and by--some time in the future."

"Good morning," replied the Lion, squatting down upon the lawn again.
"You are likely to see a good deal of me, if you live in the Land of
Oz."

[Illustration]




_How_ THE GRAND GALLIPOOT JOINED THE NOMES

CHAPTER EIGHT

[Illustration]


After leaving the Whimsies, Guph continued on his journey and penetrated
far into the Northwest. He wanted to get to the Country of the
Growleywogs, and in order to do that he must cross the Ripple Land,
which was a hard thing to do. For the Ripple Land was a succession of
hills and valleys, all very steep and rocky, and they changed places
constantly by rippling. While Guph was climbing a hill it sank down
under him and became a valley, and while he was descending into a valley
it rose up and carried him to the top of a hill. This was very
perplexing to the traveler, and a stranger might have thought he could
never cross the Ripple Land at all. But Guph knew that if he kept
steadily on he would get to the end at last; so he paid no attention to
the changing hills and valleys and plodded along as calmly as if walking
upon the level ground.

The result of this wise persistence was that the General finally reached
firmer soil and, after penetrating a dense forest, came to the Dominion
of the Growleywogs.

No sooner had he crossed the border of this domain when two guards
seized him and carried him before the Grand Gallipoot of the
Growleywogs, who scowled upon him ferociously and asked him why he dared
intrude upon his territory.

"I'm the Lord High General of the Invincible Army of the Nomes, and my
name is Guph," was the reply. "All the world trembles when that name is
mentioned."

The Growleywogs gave a shout of jeering laughter at this, and one of
them caught the Nome in his strong arms and tossed him high into the
air. Guph was considerably shaken when he fell upon the hard ground, but
he appeared to take no notice of the impertinence and composed himself
to speak again to the Grand Gallipoot.

"My master, King Roquat the Red, has sent me here to confer with you. He
wishes your assistance to conquer the Land of Oz."

Here the General paused, and the Grand Gallipoot scowled upon him more
terribly than ever and said:

"Go on!"

The voice of the Grand Gallipoot was partly a roar and partly a growl.
He mumbled his words badly and Guph had to listen carefully in order to
understand him.

These Growleywogs were certainly remarkable creatures. They were of
gigantic size, yet were all bone and skin and muscle, there being no
meat or fat upon their bodies at all. Their powerful muscles lay just
underneath their skins, like bunches of tough rope, and the weakest
Growleywog was so strong that he could pick up an elephant and toss it
seven miles away.

It seems unfortunate that strong people are usually so disagreeable and
overbearing that no one cares for them. In fact, to be different from
your fellow creatures is always a misfortune. The Growleywogs knew
that they were disliked and avoided by every one, so they had become
surly and unsociable even among themselves. Guph knew that they hated
all people, including the Nomes; but he hoped to win them over,
nevertheless, and knew that if he succeeded they would afford him very
powerful assistance.

"The Land of Oz is ruled by a namby-pamby girl who is disgustingly kind
and good," he continued. "Her people are all happy and contented and
have no care or worries whatever."

"Go on!" growled the Grand Gallipoot.

[Illustration]

"Once the Nome King enslaved the Royal Family of Ev--another goody-goody
lot that we detest," said the General. "But Ozma interfered, although it
was none of her business, and marched her army against us. With her was
a Kansas girl named Dorothy, and a Yellow Hen, and they marched
directly into the Nome King's cavern. There they liberated our slaves
from Ev and stole King Roquat's Magic Belt, which they carried away with
them. So now our King is making a tunnel under the deadly desert, so we
can march through it to the Emerald City. When we get there we mean to
conquer and destroy all the land and recapture the Magic Belt."

Again he paused, and again the Grand Gallipoot growled:

"Go on!"

Guph tried to think what to say next, and a happy thought soon occurred
to him.

"We want you to help us in this conquest," he announced, "for we need
the mighty aid of the Growleywogs in order to make sure that we shall
not be defeated. You are the strongest people in all the world, and you
hate good and happy creatures as much as we Nomes do. I am sure it will
be a real pleasure to you to tear down the beautiful Emerald City, and
in return for your valuable assistance we will allow you to bring back
to your country ten thousand people of Oz, to be your slaves."

"Twenty thousand!" growled the Grand Gallipoot.

"All right, we promise you twenty thousand," agreed the General.

The Gallipoot made a signal and at once his attendants picked up General
Guph and carried him away to a prison, where the jailor amused himself
by sticking pins in the round fat body of the old Nome, to see him jump
and hear him yell.

But while this was going on the Grand Gallipoot was talking with his
counselors, who were the most important officials of the Growleywogs.
When he had stated to them the proposition of the Nome King he said:

"My advice is to offer to help them. Then, when we have conquered the
Land of Oz, we will take not only our twenty thousand prisoners but all
the gold and jewels we want."

"Let us take the Magic Belt, too," suggested one counselor.

"And rob the Nome King and make him our slave," said another.

"That is a good idea," declared the Grand Gallipoot. "I'd like King
Roquat for my own slave. He could black my boots and bring me my
porridge every morning while I am in bed."

"There is a famous Scarecrow in Oz. I'll take him for my slave," said a
counselor.

"I'll take Tiktok, the machine man," said another.

"Give me the Tin Woodman," said a third.

They went on for some time, dividing up the people and the treasure of
Oz in advance of the conquest. For they had no doubt at all that they
would be able to destroy Ozma's domain. Were they not the strongest
people in all the world?

"The deadly desert has kept us out of Oz before," remarked the Grand
Gallipoot, "but now that the Nome King is building a tunnel we shall get
into the Emerald City very easily. So let us send the little fat General
back to his King with our promise to assist him. We will not say that we
intend to conquer the Nomes after we have conquered Oz, but we will do
so, just the same."

This plan being agreed upon, they all went home to dinner, leaving
General Guph still in prison. The Nome had no idea that he had succeeded
in his mission, for finding himself in prison he feared the Growleywogs
intended to put him to death.

By this time the jailor had tired of sticking pins in the General, and
was amusing himself by carefully pulling the Nome's whiskers out by the
roots, one at a time. This enjoyment was interrupted by the Grand
Gallipoot sending for the prisoner.

"Wait a few hours," begged the jailor. "I haven't pulled out a quarter
of his whiskers yet."

"If you keep the Grand Gallipoot waiting he'll break your back,"
declared the messenger.

"Perhaps you're right," sighed the jailor. "Take the prisoner away, if
you will, but I advise you to kick him at every step he takes. It will
be good fun, for he is as soft as a ripe peach."

[Illustration]

So Guph was led away to the royal castle, where the Grand Gallipoot told
him that the Growleywogs had decided to assist the Nomes in conquering
the Land of Oz.

"Whenever you are ready," he added, "send me word and I will march with
eighteen thousand of my most powerful warriors to your aid."

Guph was so delighted that he forgot all the smarting caused by the pins
and the pulling of whiskers. He did not even complain of the treatment
he had received, but thanked the Grand Gallipoot and hurried away upon
his journey.

He had now secured the assistance of the Whimsies and the Growleywogs;
but his success made him long for still more allies. His own life
depended upon his conquering Oz, and he said to himself:

"I'll take no chances. I'll be certain of success. Then, when Oz is
destroyed, perhaps I shall be a greater man than old Roquat, and I can
throw him away and be King of the Nomes myself. Why not? The Whimsies
are stronger than the Nomes, and they are my friends. The Growleywogs
are stronger than the Whimsies, and they also are my friends. There are
some people still stronger than the Growleywogs, and if I can but induce
them to aid me I shall have nothing more to fear."




_How_ THE WOGGLEBUG TAUGHT ATHLETICS

CHAPTER NINE

[Illustration]


It did not take Dorothy long to establish herself in her new home, for
she knew the people and the manners and customs of the Emerald City just
as well as she knew the old Kansas farm.

But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em had some trouble in getting used to the
finery and pomp and ceremony of Ozma's palace, and felt uneasy because
they were obliged to be "dressed up" all the time. Yet every one was
very courteous and kind to them and endeavored to make them happy. Ozma,
especially, made much of Dorothy's relatives, for her little friend's
sake, and she well knew that the awkwardness and strangeness of their
new mode of life would all wear off in time.

The old people were chiefly troubled by the fact that there was no work
for them to do.

"Ev'ry day is like Sunday, now," declared Aunt Em, solemnly, "and I
can't say I like it. If they'd only let me do up the dishes after meals,
or even sweep an' dust my own rooms, I'd be a deal happier. Henry don't
know what to do with himself either, and once when he stole out an' fed
the chickens Billina scolded him for letting 'em eat between meals. I
never knew before what a hardship it is to be rich and have everything
you want."

These complaints began to worry Dorothy; so she had a long talk with
Ozma upon the subject.

"I see I must find them something to do," said the girlish Ruler of Oz,
seriously. "I have been watching your uncle and aunt, and I believe they
will be more contented if occupied with some light tasks. While I am
considering this matter, Dorothy, you might make a trip with them
through the Land of Oz, visiting some of the odd corners and introducing
your relatives to some of our curious people."

"Oh, that would be fine!" exclaimed Dorothy, eagerly.

"I will give you an escort befitting your rank as a Princess," continued
Ozma; "and you may go to some of the places you have not yet visited
yourself, as well as some others that you know. I will mark out a plan
of the trip for you and have everything in readiness for you to start
to-morrow morning. Take your time, dear, and be gone as long as you
wish. By the time you return I shall have found some occupation for
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em that will keep them from being restless and
dissatisfied."

Dorothy thanked her good friend and kissed the lovely Ruler gratefully.
Then she ran to tell the joyful news to her uncle and aunt.

Next morning, after breakfast, everything was found ready for their
departure.

The escort included Omby Amby, the Captain General of Ozma's army, which
consisted merely of twenty-seven officers besides the Captain General.
Once Omby Amby had been a private soldier--the only private in the
army--but as there was never any fighting to do Ozma saw no need of a
private, so she made Omby Amby the highest officer of them all. He was
very tall and slim and wore a gay uniform and a fierce mustache. Yet the
mustache was the only fierce thing about Omby Amby, whose nature was as
gentle as that of a child.

The wonderful Wizard had asked to join the party, and with him came his
friend the Shaggy Man, who was shaggy but not ragged, being dressed in
fine silks with satin shags and bobtails. The Shaggy Man had shaggy
whiskers and hair, but a sweet disposition and a soft, pleasant voice.

There was an open wagon, with three seats for the passengers, and the
wagon was drawn by the famous wooden Sawhorse which had once been
brought to life by Ozma by means of a magic powder. The Sawhorse wore
golden shoes to keep his wooden legs from wearing away, and he was
strong and swift. As this curious creature was Ozma's own favorite
steed, and very popular with all the people of the Emerald City, Dorothy
knew that she had been highly favored by being permitted to use the
Sawhorse on her journey.

In the front seat of the wagon sat Dorothy and the Wizard. Uncle Henry
and Aunt Em sat in the next seat and the Shaggy Man and Omby Amby in the
third seat. Of course Toto was with the party, curled up at Dorothy's
feet, and just as they were about to start Billina came fluttering along
the path and begged to be taken with them. Dorothy readily agreed, so
the Yellow Hen flew up and perched herself upon the dashboard. She wore
her pearl necklace and three bracelets upon each leg, in honor of the
occasion.

Dorothy kissed Ozma good-bye, and all the people standing around waved
their handkerchiefs, and the band in an upper balcony struck up a
military march. Then the Wizard clucked to the Sawhorse and said:
"Gid-dap!" and the wooden animal pranced away and drew behind him the
big red wagon and all the passengers, without any effort at all. A
servant threw open a gate of the palace enclosure, that they might pass
out; and so, with music and shouts following them, the journey was
begun.

"It's almost like a circus," said Aunt Em, proudly. "I can't help
feelin' high an' mighty in this kind of a turn-out."

Indeed, as they passed down the street, all the people cheered them
lustily, and the Shaggy Man and the Wizard and the Captain General all
took off their hats and bowed politely in acknowledgment.

When they came to the great wall of the Emerald City the gates were
opened by the Guardian who always tended them. Over the gateway hung a
dull-colored metal magnet shaped like a horse-shoe, placed against a
shield of polished gold.

"That," said the Shaggy Man, impressively, "is the wonderful Love
Magnet. I brought it to the Emerald City myself, and all who pass
beneath this gateway are both loving and beloved."

"It's a fine thing," declared Aunt Em, admiringly. "If we'd had it in
Kansas I guess the man who held a mortgage on the farm wouldn't have
turned us out."

"Then I'm glad we didn't have it," returned Uncle Henry. "I like Oz
better than Kansas, even; an' this little wood Sawhorse beats all the
critters I ever saw. He don't have to be curried, or fed, or watered,
an' he's strong as an ox. Can he talk, Dorothy?"

"Yes, Uncle," replied the child. "But the Sawhorse never says much. He
told me once that he can't talk and think at the same time, so he
prefers to think."

"Which is very sensible," declared the Wizard, nodding approvingly.
"Which way do we go, Dorothy?"

"Straight ahead into the Quadling Country," she answered. "I've got a
letter of interduction to Miss Cuttenclip."

"Oh!" exclaimed the Wizard, much interested. "Are we going there? Then
I'm glad I came, for I've always wanted to meet the Cuttenclips."

"Who are they?" inquired Aunt Em.

"Wait till we get there," replied Dorothy, with a laugh; "then you'll
see for yourself. I've never seen the Cuttenclips, you know, so I can't
'zactly 'splain 'em to you."

Once free of the Emerald City the Sawhorse dashed away at tremendous
speed. Indeed, he went so fast that Aunt Em had hard work to catch her
breath, and Uncle Henry held fast to the seat of the red wagon.

"Gently--gently, my boy!" called the Wizard, and at this the Sawhorse
slackened his speed.

"What's wrong?" asked the animal, slightly turning his wooden head to
look at the party with one eye, which was a knot of wood.

"Why, we wish to admire the scenery, that's all," answered the Wizard.

"Some of your passengers," added the Shaggy Man, "have never been out
of the Emerald City before, and the country is all new to them."

"If you go too fast you'll spoil all the fun," said Dorothy. "There's no
hurry."

"Very well; it is all the same to me," observed the Sawhorse; and after
that he went at a more moderate pace.

Uncle Henry was astonished.

"How can a wooden thing be so intelligent?" he asked.

"Why, I gave him some sawdust brains the last time I fitted his head
with new ears," explained the Wizard. "The sawdust was made from hard
knots, and now the Sawhorse is able to think out any knotty problem he
meets with."

"I see," said Uncle Henry.

"I don't," remarked Aunt Em; but no one paid any attention to this
statement.

Before long they came to a stately building that stood upon a green
plain with handsome shade trees grouped here and there.

"What is that?" asked Uncle Henry.

"That," replied the Wizard, "is the Royal Athletic College of Oz, which
is directed by Professor H. M. Wogglebug, T. E.

"Let's stop and make a call," suggested Dorothy.

[Illustration]

So the Sawhorse drew up in front of the great building and they were met
at the door by the learned Wogglebug himself. He seemed fully as tall
as the Wizard, and was dressed in a red and white checked vest and a
blue swallow-tailed coat, and had yellow knee breeches and purple silk
stockings upon his slender legs. A tall hat was jauntily set upon his
head and he wore spectacles over his big bright eyes.

"Welcome, Dorothy," said the Wogglebug; "and welcome to all your
friends. We are indeed pleased to receive you at this great Temple of
Learning."

"I thought it was an Athletic College," said the Shaggy Man.

"It is, my dear sir," answered the Wogglebug, proudly. "Here it is that
we teach the youth of our great land scientific College Athletics--in
all their purity."

"Don't you teach them anything else?" asked Dorothy. "Don't they get any
reading, writing and 'rithmetic?"

"Oh, yes; of course. They get all those, and more," returned the
Professor. "But such things occupy little of their time. Please follow
me and I will show you how my scholars are usually occupied. This is a
class hour and they are all busy."

They followed him to a big field back of the college building, where
several hundred young Ozites were at their classes. In one place they
played football, in another baseball. Some played tennis, some golf;
some were swimming in a big pool. Upon a river which wound through the
grounds several crews in racing boats were rowing with great enthusiasm.
Other groups of students played basketball and cricket, while in one
place a ring was roped in to permit boxing and wrestling by the
energetic youths. All the collegians seemed busy and there was much
laughter and shouting.

"This college," said Professor Wogglebug, complacently, "is a great
success. It's educational value is undisputed, and we are turning out
many great and valuable citizens every year."

"But when do they study?" asked Dorothy.

"Study?" said the Wogglebug, looking perplexed at the question.

"Yes; when do they get their 'rithmetic, and jogerfy, and such things?"

"Oh, they take doses of those every night and morning," was the reply.

"What do you mean by doses?" Dorothy inquired, wonderingly.

"Why, we use the newly invented School Pills, made by your friend the
Wizard. These pills we have found to be very effective, and they save a
lot of time. Please step this way and I will show you our Laboratory of
Learning."

He led them to a room in the building where many large bottles were
standing in rows upon shelves.

"These are the Algebra Pills," said the Professor, taking down one of
the bottles. "One at night, on retiring, is equal to four hours of
study. Here are the Geography Pills--one at night and one in the
morning. In this next bottle are the Latin Pills--one three times a day.
Then we have the Grammar Pills--one before each meal--and the Spelling
Pills, which are taken whenever needed."

[Illustration]

"Your scholars must have to take a lot of pills," remarked Dorothy,
thoughtfully. "How do they take 'em, in applesauce?"

"No, my dear. They are sugar-coated and are quickly and easily
swallowed. I believe the students would rather take the pills than
study, and certainly the pills are a more effective method. You see,
until these School Pills were invented we wasted a lot of time in study
that may now be better employed in practising athletics."

"Seems to me the pills are a good thing," said Omby Amby, who remembered
how it used to make his head ache as a boy to study arithmetic.

"They are, sir," declared the Wogglebug, earnestly. "They give us an
advantage over all other colleges, because at no loss of time our boys
become thoroughly conversant with Greek and Latin, Mathematics and
Geography, Grammar and Literature. You see they are never obliged to
interrupt their games to acquire the lesser branches of learning."

"It's a great invention, I'm sure," said Dorothy, looking admiringly at
the Wizard, who blushed modestly at this praise.

"We live in an age of progress," announced Professor Wogglebug,
pompously. "It is easier to swallow knowledge than to acquire it
laboriously from books. Is it not so, my friends?"

"Some folks can swallow anything," said Aunt Em, "but to me this seems
too much like taking medicine."

"Young men in college always have to take their medicine, one way or
another," observed the Wizard, with a smile; "and, as our Professor
says, these School Pills have proved to be a great success. One day
while I was making them I happened to drop one of them, and one of
Billina's chickens gobbled it up. A few minutes afterward this chick got
upon a roost and recited 'The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck' without
making a single mistake. Then it recited 'The Charge of the Light
Brigade' and afterwards 'Excelsior.' You see, the chicken had eaten an
Elocution Pill."

They now bade good bye to the Professor, and thanking him for his kind
reception mounted again into the red wagon and continued their journey.




_How_ THE CUTTENCLIPS LIVED

CHAPTER TEN

[Illustration]


The travelers had taken no provisions with them because they knew that
they would be welcomed wherever they might go in the Land of Oz, and
that the people would feed and lodge them with genuine hospitality. So
about noon they stopped at a farm-house and were given a delicious
luncheon of bread and milk, fruits and wheat cakes with maple syrup.
After resting a while and strolling through the orchards with their
host--a round, jolly farmer--they got into the wagon and again started
the Sawhorse along the pretty, winding road.

There were sign-posts at all the corners, and finally they came to one
which read:

[Illustration: (hand pointing right)] TAKE THIS ROAD TO THE CUTTENCLIPS

There was also a hand pointing in the right direction, so they turned
the Sawhorse that way and found it a very good road, but seemingly
little traveled.

"I've never been to see the Cuttenclips before," remarked Dorothy.

"Nor I," said the Captain General.

"Nor I," said the Wizard.

"Nor I," said Billina.

"I've hardly been out of the Emerald City since I arrived in this
country," added the Shaggy Man.

"Why, none of us has been there, then," exclaimed the little girl. "I
wonder what the Cuttenclips are like."

"We shall soon find out," said the Wizard, with a sly laugh. "I've heard
they are rather flimsy things."

The farm-houses became fewer as they proceeded, and the path was at
times so faint that the Sawhorse had hard work to keep in the road. The
wagon began to jounce, too; so they were obliged to go slowly.

After a somewhat wearisome journey they came in sight of a high wall,
painted blue with pink ornaments. This wall was circular, and seemed to
enclose a large space. It was so high that only the tops of the trees
could be seen above it.

The path led up to a small door in the wall, which was closed and
latched. Upon the door was a sign in gold letters reading as follows:

_VISITORS are requested to MOVE SLOWLY and CAREFULLY, and to avoid
COUGHING or making any BREEZE or DRAUGHT_

"That's strange," said the Shaggy Man, reading the sign aloud. "Who
_are_ the Cuttenclips, anyhow?"

"Why, they're paper dolls," answered Dorothy. "Didn't you know that?"

"Paper dolls! Then let's go somewhere else," said Uncle Henry. "We're
all too old to play with dolls, Dorothy."

"But these are different," declared the girl. "They're alive."

"Alive!" gasped Aunt Em, in amazement.

"Yes. Let's go in," said Dorothy.

So they all got out of the wagon, since the door in the wall was not big
enough for them to drive the Sawhorse and wagon through it.

"You stay here, Toto!" commanded Dorothy, shaking her finger at the
little dog. "You 're so careless that you might make a breeze if I let
you inside."

Toto wagged his tail as if disappointed at being left behind; but he
made no effort to follow them. The Wizard unlatched the door, which
opened outward, and they all looked eagerly inside.

Just before the entrance was drawn up a line of tiny soldiers, with
uniforms brightly painted and paper guns upon their shoulders. They were
exactly alike, from one end of the line to the other, and all were cut
out of paper and joined together in the centers of their bodies.

As the visitors entered the enclosure the Wizard let the door swing back
into place, and at once the line of soldiers tumbled over, fell flat
upon their backs, and lay fluttering upon the ground.

"Hi, there!" called one of them; "what do you mean by slamming the door
and blowing us over?"

"I beg your pardon, I'm sure," said the Wizard, regretfully. "I didn't
know you were so delicate."

"We're not delicate!" retorted another soldier, raising his head from
the ground. "We are strong and healthy; but we can't stand draughts."

"May I help you up?" asked Dorothy.

"If you please," replied the end soldier. "But do it gently, little
girl."

Dorothy carefully stood up the line of soldiers, who first dusted their
painted clothes and then saluted the visitors with their paper muskets.
From the end it was easy to see that the entire line had been cut out of
paper, although from the front the soldiers looked rather solid and
imposing.

"I've a letter of introduction from Princess Ozma to Miss Cuttenclip,"
announced Dorothy.

"Very well," said the end soldier, and blew upon a paper whistle that
hung around his neck. At once a paper soldier in a Captain's uniform
came out of a paper house near by and approached the group at the
entrance. He was not very big, and he walked rather stiffly and
uncertainly on his paper legs; but he had a pleasant face, with very red
cheeks and very blue eyes, and he bowed so low to the strangers that
Dorothy laughed, and the breeze from her mouth nearly blew the Captain
over. He wavered and struggled and finally managed to remain upon his
feet.

"Take care, Miss!" he said, warningly. "You're breaking the rules, you
know, by laughing."

"Oh, I didn't know that," she replied.

"To laugh in this place is nearly as dangerous as to cough," said the
Captain. "You'll have to breathe very quietly, I assure you."

"We'll try to," promised the girl. "May we see Miss Cuttenclip, please?"

"You may," promptly returned the Captain. "This is one of her reception
days. Be good enough to follow me."

He turned and led the way up a path, and as they followed slowly,
because the paper Captain did not move very swiftly, they took the
opportunity to gaze around them at this strange paper country.

Beside the path were paper trees, all cut out very neatly and painted a
brilliant green color. And back of the trees were rows of cardboard
houses, painted in various colors but most of them having green blinds.
Some were large and some small, and in the front yards were beds of
paper flowers quite natural in appearance. Over some of the porches
paper vines were twined, giving them a cosy and shady look.

As the visitors passed along the street a good many paper dolls came to
the doors and windows of their houses to look at them curiously. These
dolls were nearly all the same height, but were cut into various shapes,
some being fat and some lean. The girl dolls wore many beautiful
costumes of tissue paper, making them quite fluffy; but their heads and
hands were no thicker than the paper of which they were made.

Some of the paper people were on the street, walking along or
congregated in groups and talking together; but as soon as they saw the
strangers they all fluttered into the houses as fast as they could go,
so as to be out of danger.

"Excuse me if I go edgewise," remarked the Captain, as they came to a
slight hill. "I can get along faster that way and not flutter so much."

"That's all right," said Dorothy. "We don't mind how you go, I'm sure."

At one side of the street was a paper pump, and a paper boy was pumping
paper water into a paper pail. The Yellow Hen happened to brush against
this boy with her wing, and he flew into the air and fell into a paper
tree, where he stuck until the Wizard gently pulled him out. At the same
time the pail went soaring into the air, spilling the paper water, while
the paper pump bent nearly double.

"Goodness me!" said the Hen. "If I should flop my wings I believe I'd
knock over the whole village!"

"Then don't flop them--please don't!" entreated the Captain. "Miss
Cuttenclip would be very much distressed if her village was spoiled."

"Oh, I'll be careful," promised Billina.

"Are not all these paper girls and women named Miss Cuttenclips?"
inquired Omby Amby.

"No, indeed," answered the Captain, who was walking better since he
began to move edgewise. "There is but one Miss Cuttenclip, who is our
Queen, because she made us all. These girls are Cuttenclips, to be sure,
but their names are Emily and Polly and Sue and Betty and such things.
Only the Queen is called Miss Cuttenclip."

"I must say that this place beats anything I ever heard of," observed
Aunt Em. "I used to play with paper dolls myself, an' cut 'em out; but
I never thought I'd ever see such things alive."

"I don't see as it's any more curious than hearing hens talk," returned
Uncle Henry.

"You're likely to see many queer things in the Land of Oz, sir," said
the Wizard. "But a fairy country is extremely interesting when you get
used to being surprised."

"Here we are!" called the Captain, stopping before a cottage.

This house was made of wood, and was remarkably pretty in design. In the
Emerald City it would have been considered a tiny dwelling, indeed; but
in the midst of this paper village it seemed immense. Real flowers were
in the garden and real trees grew beside it. Upon the front door was a
sign reading:

MISS CUTTENCLIP.

Just as they reached the porch the front door opened and a little girl
stood before them. She appeared to be about the same age as Dorothy, and
smiling upon her visitors she said, sweetly:

"You are welcome."

All the party seemed relieved to find that here was a real girl, of
flesh and blood. She was very dainty and pretty as she stood there
welcoming them. Her hair was a golden blonde and her eyes turquoise
blue. She had rosy cheeks and lovely white teeth. Over her simple white
lawn dress she wore an apron with pink and white checks, and in one hand
she held a pair of scissors.

"May we see Miss Cuttenclip, please?" asked Dorothy.

"I am Miss Cuttenclip," was the reply. "Won't you come in?"

She held the door open while they all entered a pretty sitting-room that
was littered with all sorts of paper--some stiff, some thin, and some
tissue. The sheets and scraps were of all colors. Upon a table were
paints and brushes, while several pair of scissors, of different sizes,
were lying about.

[Illustration]

"Sit down, please," said Miss Cuttenclip, clearing the paper scraps off
some of the chairs. "It is so long since I have had any visitors that I
am not properly prepared to receive them. But I'm sure you will pardon
my untidy room, for this is my workshop."

"Do you make all the paper dolls?" inquired Dorothy.

"Yes; I cut them out with my scissors, and paint the faces and some of
the costumes. It is very pleasant work, and I am happy making my paper
village grow."

"But how do the paper dolls happen to be alive?" asked Aunt Em.

"The first dolls I made were not alive," said Miss Cuttenclip. "I used
to live near the castle of a great Sorceress named Glinda the Good,
and she saw my dolls and said they were very pretty. I told her I
thought I would like them better if they were alive, and the next day
the Sorceress brought me a lot of magic paper. 'This is live paper,' she
said, 'and all the dolls you cut out of it will be alive, and able to
think and to talk. When you have used it all up, come to me and I will
give you more.'

"Of course I was delighted with this present," continued Miss
Cuttenclip, "and at once set to work and made several paper dolls,
which, as soon as they were cut out, began to walk around and talk to
me. But they were so thin that I found that any breeze would blow them
over and scatter them dreadfully; so Glinda found this lonely place for
me, where few people ever come. She built the wall to keep any wind from
blowing away my people, and told me I could build a paper village here
and be its Queen. That is why I came here and settled down to work and
started the village you now see. It was many years ago that I built the
first houses, and I've kept pretty busy and made my village grow finely;
and I need not tell you that I am very happy in my work."

"Many years ago!" exclaimed Aunt Em. "Why, how old are you, child?"

"I never keep track of the years," said Miss Cuttenclip, laughing. "You
see, I don't grow up at all, but stay just the same as I was when first
I came here. Perhaps I'm older even than you are, madam; but I couldn't
say for sure."

They looked at the lovely little girl wonderingly, and the Wizard asked:

"What happens to your paper village when it rains?"

"It does not rain here," replied Miss Cuttenclip. "Glinda keeps all the
rain storms away; so I never worry about my dolls getting wet. But now,
if you will come with me, it will give me pleasure to show you over my
paper kingdom. Of course you must go slowly and carefully, and avoid
making any breeze."

They left the cottage and followed their guide through the various
streets of the village. It was indeed an amazing place, when one
considered that it was all made with scissors, and the visitors were not
only greatly interested but full of admiration for the skill of little
Miss Cuttenclip.

In one place a large group of especially nice paper dolls assembled to
greet their Queen, whom it was easy to see they loved dearly. These
dolls marched and danced before the visitors, and then they all waved
their paper handkerchiefs and sang in a sweet chorus a song called "The
Flag of Our Native Land."

At the conclusion of the song they ran up a handsome paper flag on a
tall flagpole, and all of the people of the village gathered around to
cheer as loudly as they could--although, of course, their voices were
not especially strong.

Miss Cuttenclip was about to make her subjects a speech in reply to this
patriotic song, when the Shaggy Man happened to sneeze.

[Illustration]

He was a very loud and powerful sneezer at any time, and he had tried so
hard to hold in this sneeze that when it suddenly exploded the result
was terrible.

The paper dolls were mowed down by dozens, and flew and fluttered in
wild confusion in every direction, tumbling this way and that and
getting more or less wrinkled and bent.

A wail of terror and grief came from the scattered throng, and Miss
Cuttenclip exclaimed:

"Dear me! dear me!" and hurried at once to the rescue of her overturned
people.

"Oh, Shaggy Man! How could you?" asked Dorothy, reproachfully.

"I couldn't help it--really I couldn't," protested the Shaggy Man,
looking quite ashamed. "And I had no idea it took so little to upset
these paper dolls."

"So little!" said Dorothy. "Why, it was 'most as bad as a Kansas
cyclone." And then she helped Miss Cuttenclip rescue the paper folk and
stand them on their feet again. Two of the cardboard houses had also
tumbled over, and the little Queen said she would have to repair them
and paste them together before they could be lived in again.

And now, fearing they might do more damage to the flimsy paper people,
they decided to go away. But first they thanked Miss Cuttenclip very
warmly for her courtesy and kindness to them.

"Any friend of Princess Ozma is always welcome here--unless he sneezes,"
said the Queen, with a rather severe look at the Shaggy Man, who hung
his head. "I like to have visitors admire my wonderful village, and I
hope you will call again."

Miss Cuttenclip herself led them to the door in the wall, and as they
passed along the street the paper dolls peeped at them half fearfully
from the doors and windows. Perhaps they will never forget the Shaggy
Man's awful sneeze, and I am sure they were all glad to see the meat
people go away.

[Illustration]




_How_ THE GENERAL MET THE FIRST AND FOREMOST

CHAPTER ELEVEN

[Illustration]


On leaving the Growleywogs General Guph had to recross the Ripple Lands,
and he did not find it a pleasant thing to do. Perhaps having his
whiskers pulled out one by one and being used as a pin-cushion for the
innocent amusement of a good natured jailor had not improved the quality
of Guph's temper, for the old Nome raved and raged at the recollection
of the wrongs he had suffered, and vowed to take vengeance upon the
Growleywogs after he had used them for his purposes and Oz had been
conquered. He went on in this furious way until he was half across the
Ripple Land. Then he became seasick, and the rest of the way this
naughty Nome was almost as miserable as he deserved to be.

But when he reached the plains again and the ground was firm under his
feet he began to feel better, and instead of going back home he turned
directly west. A squirrel, perched in a tree, saw him take this road
and called to him warningly: "Look out!" But he paid no attention. An
eagle paused in its flight through the air to look at him wonderingly
and say: "Look out!" But on he went.

No one can say that Guph was not brave, for he had determined to visit
those dangerous creatures the Phanfasms, who resided upon the very top
of the dread Mountain of Phantastico. The Phanfasms were Erbs, and so
dreaded by mortals and immortals alike that no one had been near their
mountain home for several thousand years. Yet General Guph hoped to
induce them to join in his proposed warfare against the good and happy
Oz people.

Guph knew very well that the Phanfasms would be almost as dangerous to
the Nomes as they would to the Ozites, but he thought himself so clever
that he believed that he could manage these strange creatures and make
them obey him. And there was no doubt at all that if he could enlist the
services of the Phanfasms their tremendous power, united to the strength
of the Growleywogs and the cunning of the Whimsies would doom the Land
of Oz to absolute destruction.

So the old Nome climbed the foothills and trudged along the wild
mountain paths until he came to a big gully that encircled the Mountain
of Phantastico and marked the boundary line of the dominion of the
Phanfasms. This gully was about a third of the way up the mountain, and
it was filled to the brim with red-hot molten lava, in which swam
fire-serpents and poisonous salamanders. The heat from this mass and its
poisonous smell were both so unbearable that even birds hesitated to fly
over the gully, but circled around it. All living things kept away from
the mountain.

Now Guph had heard, during his long lifetime, many tales of these
dreaded Phanfasms; so he had heard of this barrier of melted lava, and
also he had been told that there was a narrow bridge that spanned it in
one place. So he walked along the edge until he found the bridge. It was
a single arch of gray stone, and lying flat upon this bridge was a
scarlet alligator, seemingly fast asleep.

When Guph stumbled over the rocks in approaching the bridge the creature
opened its eyes, from which tiny flames shot in all directions, and
after looking at the intruder very wickedly the scarlet alligator closed
its eyelids again and lay still.

Guph saw there was no room for him to pass the alligator on the narrow
bridge, so he called out to it:

"Good morning, friend. I don't wish to hurry you, but please tell me if
you are coming down, or going up?"

"Neither," snapped the alligator, clicking its cruel jaws together.

The General hesitated.

[Illustration]

"Are you likely to stay there long?" he asked.

"A few hundred years or so," said the alligator.

Guph softly rubbed the end of his nose and tried to think what to do.

"Do you know whether the First and Foremost Phanfasm of Phantastico is
at home or not?" he presently inquired.

"I expect he is, seeing he is always at home," replied the alligator.

"Ah; who is that coming down the mountain?" asked the Nome, gazing
upward.

The alligator turned to look over its shoulder, and at once Guph ran to
the bridge and leaped over the sentinel's back before it could turn back
again. The scarlet monster made a snap at the Nome's left foot, but
missed it by fully an inch.

"Ah ha!" laughed the General, who was now on the mountain path. "I
fooled you that time."

"So you did; and perhaps you fooled yourself," retorted the alligator.
"Go up the mountain, if you dare, and find out what the First and
Foremost will do to you!"

"I will," declared Guph, boldly; and on he went up the path.

At first the scene was wild enough, but gradually it grew more and more
awful in appearance. All the rocks had the shapes of frightful beings
and even the tree trunks were gnarled and twisted like serpents.

Suddenly there appeared before the Nome a man with the head of an owl.
His body was hairy, like that of an ape, and his only clothing was a
scarlet scarf twisted around his waist. He bore a huge club in his hand
and his round owl eyes blinked fiercely upon the intruder.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded, threatening Guph with his club.

"I've come to see the First and Foremost Phanfasm of Phantastico,"
replied the General, who did not like the way this creature looked at
him, but still was not afraid.

"Ah; you shall see him!" the man said, with a sneering laugh. "The First
and Foremost shall decide upon the best way to punish you."

"He will not punish me," returned Guph, calmly, "for I have come here to
do him and his people a rare favor. Lead on, fellow, and take me
directly to your master."

The owl-man raised his club with a threatening gesture.

"If you try to escape," he said, "beware--"

But here the General interrupted him.

"Spare your threats," said he, "and do not be impertinent, or I will
have you severely punished. Lead on, and keep silent!"

This Guph was really a clever rascal, and it seems a pity he was so bad,
for in a good cause he might have accomplished much. He realized that he
had put himself into a dangerous position by coming to this dreadful
mountain, but he also knew that if he showed fear he was lost. So he
adopted a bold manner as his best defense. The wisdom of this plan was
soon evident, for the Phanfasm with the owl's head turned and led the
way up the mountain.

At the very top was a level plain, upon which were heaps of rock that at
first glance seemed solid. But on looking closer Guph discovered that
these rock heaps were dwellings, for each had an opening.

Not a person was to be seen outside the rock huts. All was silent.

The owl-man led the way among the groups of dwellings to one standing in
the center. It seemed no better and no worse than any of the others.
Outside the entrance to this rock heap the guide gave a low wail that
sounded like "Lee-ow-ah!"

Suddenly there bounded from the opening another hairy man. This one wore
the head of a bear. In his hand he bore a brass hoop. He glared at the
stranger in evident surprise.

"Why have you captured this foolish wanderer and brought him here?" he
demanded, addressing the owl-man.

"I did not capture him," was the answer. "He passed the scarlet
alligator and came here of his own free will and accord."

The First and Foremost looked at the General.


"Have you tired of life, then?" he asked.

"No, indeed," answered Guph. "I am a Nome, and the Chief General of King
Roquat the Red's great army of Nomes. I come of a long-lived race, and I
may say that I expect to live a long time yet. Sit down, you
Phanfasms--if you can find a seat in this wild haunt--and listen to what
I have to say."

With all his knowledge and bravery General Guph did not know that the
steady glare from the bear eyes was reading his inmost thoughts as
surely as if they had been put into words. He did not know that these
despised rock heaps of the Phanfasms were merely deceptions to his own
eyes, nor could he guess that he was standing in the midst of one of the
most splendid and luxurious cities ever built by magic power. All that
he saw was a barren waste of rock heaps, a hairy man with an owl's head
and another with a bear's head. The sorcery of the Phanfasms permitted
him to see no more.

Suddenly the First and Foremost swung his brass hoop and caught Guph
around the neck with it. The next instant, before the General could
think what had happened to him, he was dragged inside the rock hut.
Here, his eyes still blinded to realities, he perceived only a dim
light, by which the hut seemed as rough and rude inside as it was
outside. Yet he had a strange feeling that many bright eyes were
fastened upon him and that he stood in a vast and extensive hall.

[Illustration]

The First and Foremost now laughed grimly and released his prisoner.

"If you have anything to say that is interesting," he remarked, "speak
out, before I strangle you."

So Guph spoke out. He tried not to pay any attention to a strange
rustling sound that he heard, as of an unseen multitude drawing near to
listen to his words. His eyes could see only the fierce bear-man, and to
him he addressed his speech. First he told of his plan to conquer the
Land of Oz and plunder the country of its riches and enslave its people,
who, being fairies, could not be killed. After relating all this, and
telling of the tunnel the Nome King was building, he said he had come to
ask the First and Foremost to join the Nomes, with his band of terrible
warriors, and help them to defeat the Oz people.

The General spoke very earnestly and impressively, but when he had
finished the bear-man began to laugh as if much amused, and his laughter
seemed to be echoed by a chorus of merriment from an unseen multitude.
Then, for the first time, Guph began to feel a trifle worried.

"Who else has promised to help you?" finally asked the First and
Foremost.

"The Whimsies," replied the General.

Again the bear-headed Phanfasm laughed.

"Any others?" he inquired.

"Only the Growleywogs," said Guph.

This answer set the First and Foremost laughing anew.

"What share of the spoils am I to have?" was the next question.

"Anything you like, except King Roquat's Magic Belt," replied Guph.

At this the Phanfasm set up a roar of laughter, which had its echo in
the unseen chorus, and the bear-man seemed so amused that he actually
rolled upon the ground and shouted with merriment.

"Oh, these blind and foolish Nomes!" he said. "How big they seem to
themselves and how small they really are!"

Suddenly he arose and seized Guph's neck with one hairy paw, dragging
him out of the hut into the open.

Here he gave a curious wailing cry, and, as if in answer, from all the
rocky huts on the mountain-top came flocking a horde of Phanfasms, all
with hairy bodies, but wearing heads of various animals, birds and
reptiles. All were ferocious and repulsive-looking to the deceived eyes
of the Nome, and Guph could not repress a shudder of disgust as he
looked upon them.

The First and Foremost slowly raised his arms, and in a twinkling his
hairy skin fell from him and he appeared before the astonished Nome as a
beautiful woman, clothed in a flowing gown of pink gauze. In her dark
hair flowers were entwined, and her face was noble and calm.

At the same instant the entire band of Phanfasms was transformed into a
pack of howling wolves, running here and there as they snarled and
showed their ugly yellow fangs.

The woman now raised her arms, even as the man-bear had done, and in a
twinkling the wolves became crawling lizards, while she herself changed
into a huge butterfly.

Guph had only time to cry out in fear and take a step backward to avoid
the lizards when another transformation occurred, and all returned
instantly to the forms they had originally worn.

Then the First and Foremost, who had resumed his hairy body and bear
head, turned to the Nome and asked:

"Do you still demand our assistance?"

"More than ever," answered the General, firmly.

"Then tell me: what can you offer the Phanfasms that they have not
already?" inquired the First and Foremost.

Guph hesitated. He really did not know what to say. The Nome King's
vaunted Magic Belt seemed a poor thing compared to the astonishing
magical powers of these people. Gold, jewels and slaves they might
secure in any quantity without especial effort. He felt that he was
dealing with powers greatly beyond him. There was but one argument that
might influence the Phanfasms, who were creatures of evil.

"Permit me to call your attention to the exquisite joy of making the
happy unhappy," said he at last. "Consider the pleasure of destroying
innocent and harmless people."

[Illustration]

"Ah! you have answered me," cried the First and Foremost. "For that
reason alone we will aid you. Go home, and tell your bandy-legged king
that as soon as his tunnel is finished the Phanfasms will be with him
and lead his legions to the conquest of Oz. The deadly desert alone has
kept us from destroying Oz long ago, and your underground tunnel is a
clever thought. Go home, and prepare for our coming!"

Guph was very glad to be permitted to go with this promise. The owl-man
led him back down the mountain path and ordered the scarlet alligator to
crawl away and allow the Nome to cross the bridge in safety.

After the visitor had gone a brilliant and gorgeous city appeared upon
the mountain top, clearly visible to the eyes of the gaily dressed
multitude of Phanfasms that lived there. And the First and Foremost,
beautifully arrayed, addressed the others in these words:

"It is time we went into the world and brought sorrow and dismay to its
people. Too long have we remained by ourselves upon this mountain top,
for while we are thus secluded many nations have grown happy and
prosperous, and the chief joy of the race of Phanfasms is to destroy
happiness. So I think it is lucky that this messenger from the Nomes
arrived among us just now, to remind us that the opportunity has come
for us to make trouble. We will use King Roquat's tunnel to conquer the
Land of Oz. Then we will destroy the Whimsies, the Growleywogs and the
Nomes, and afterward go out to ravage and annoy and grieve the whole
world."

The multitude of evil Phanfasms eagerly applauded this plan, which they
fully approved.

I am told that the Erbs are the most powerful and merciless of all the
evil spirits, and the Phanfasms of Phantastico belong to the race of
Erbs.




_How_ THEY MATCHED THE FUDDLES

CHAPTER TWELVE

[Illustration]


Dorothy and her fellow travelers rode away from the Cuttenclip village
and followed the indistinct path as far as the sign-post. Here they took
the main road again and proceeded pleasantly through the pretty farming
country. When evening came they stopped at a dwelling and were joyfully
welcomed and given plenty to eat and good beds for the night.

Early next morning, however, they were up and eager to start, and after
a good breakfast they bade their host good-bye and climbed into the red
wagon, to which the Sawhorse had been hitched all night. Being made of
wood, this horse never got tired nor cared to lie down. Dorothy was not
quite sure whether he ever slept or not, but it was certain that he
never did when anybody was around.

The weather is always beautiful in Oz, and this morning the air was
cool and refreshing and the sunshine brilliant and delightful.

In about an hour they came to a place where another road branched off.
There was a sign-post here which read:

[Illustration: (hand pointing right)] THIS WAY TO FUDDLECUMJIG

"Oh, here is where we turn," said Dorothy, observing the sign.

"What! Are we going to Fuddlecumjig?" asked the Captain General.

"Yes; Ozma thought we would enjoy the Fuddles. They are said to be very
interesting," she replied.

"No one would suspect it from their name," said Aunt Em. "Who are they,
anyhow? More paper things?"

"I think not," answered Dorothy, laughing; "but I can't say 'zactly,
Aunt Em, what they are. We'll find out when we get there."

"Perhaps the Wizard knows," suggested Uncle Henry.

"No; I've never been there before," said the Wizard. "But I've often
heard of Fuddlecumjig and the Fuddles, who are said to be the most
peculiar people in all the Land of Oz."

"In what way?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"I don't know, I'm sure," said the Wizard.

Just then, as they rode along the pretty green lane toward
Fuddlecumjig, they espied a kangaroo sitting by the roadside. The poor
animal had its face covered with both its front paws and was crying so
bitterly that the tears coursed down its cheeks in two tiny streams and
trickled across the road, where they formed a pool in a small hollow.

[Illustration]

The Sawhorse stopped short at this pitiful sight, and Dorothy cried out,
with ready sympathy:

"What's the matter, Kangaroo?"

"Boo-hoo! Boo-hoo!" wailed the kangaroo; "I've lost my mi--mi--mi--Oh,
boo-hoo! Boo-hoo!"--

"Poor thing," said the Wizard, "she's lost her mister. It's probably her
husband, and he's dead."

"No, no, no!" sobbed the kangaroo. "It--it isn't that. I've lost my
mi--mi--Oh, boo, boo-hoo!"

"I know," said the Shaggy Man; "she's lost her mirror."

"No; it's my mi--mi--mi--Boo-hoo! My mi--Oh, Boo-hoo!" and the kangaroo
cried harder than ever.

"It must be her mince-pie," suggested Aunt Em.

"Or her milk-toast," proposed Uncle Henry.

"I've lost my mi--mi--mittens!" said the kangaroo, getting it out at
last.

"Oh!" cried the Yellow Hen, with a cackle of relief. "Why didn't you say
so before?"

"Boo-hoo! I--I--couldn't," answered the kangaroo.

"But, see here," said Dorothy, "you don't need mittens in this warm
weather."

"Yes, indeed I do," replied the animal, stopping her sobs and removing
her paws from her face to look at the little girl reproachfully. "My
hands will get all sunburned and tanned without my mittens, and I've
worn them so long that I'll probably catch cold without them."

"Nonsense!" said Dorothy. "I never heard before of any kangaroo wearing
mittens."

"Didn't you?" asked the animal, as if surprised.

"Never!" repeated the girl. "And you'll probably make yourself sick if
you don't stop crying. Where do you live?"

"About two miles beyond Fuddlecumjig," was the answer. "Grandmother Gnit
made me the mittens, and she's one of the Fuddles."

"Well, you'd better go home now, and perhaps the old lady will make you
another pair," suggested Dorothy. "We're on our way to Fuddlecumjig, and
you may hop along beside us."

So they rode on, and the kangaroo hopped beside the red wagon and seemed
quickly to have forgotten her loss. By and by the Wizard said to the
animal:

"Are the Fuddles nice people?"

"Oh, very nice," answered the kangaroo; "that is, when they're properly
put together. But they get dreadfully scattered and mixed up, at times,
and then you can't do anything with them."

"What do you mean by their getting scattered?" inquired Dorothy.

"Why, they're made in a good many small pieces," explained the kangaroo;
"and whenever any stranger comes near them they have a habit of falling
apart and scattering themselves around. That's when they get so
dreadfully mixed, and its a hard puzzle to put them together again."

"Who usually puts them together?" asked Omby Amby.

"Any one who is able to match the pieces. I sometimes put Grandmother
Gnit together myself, because I know her so well I can tell every piece
that belongs to her. Then, when she's all matched, she knits for me, and
that's how she made my mittens. But it took a good many days hard
knitting, and I had to put Grandmother together a good many times,
because every time I came near she'd scatter herself."

"I should think she would get used to your coming, and not be afraid,"
said Dorothy.

"It isn't that," replied the kangaroo. "They're not a bit afraid, when
they're put together, and usually they're very jolly and pleasant. It's
just a habit they have, to scatter themselves, and if they didn't do it
they wouldn't be Fuddles."

The travelers thought upon this quite seriously for a time, while the
Sawhorse continued to carry them rapidly forward. Then Aunt Em remarked:

"I don't see much use our visitin' these Fuddles. If we find them
scattered, all we can do is to sweep 'em up, and then go about our
business."

"Oh, I b'lieve we'd better go on," replied Dorothy. "I'm getting hungry,
and we must try to get some luncheon at Fuddlecumjig. Perhaps the food
won't be scattered as badly as the people."

"You'll find plenty to eat there," declared the kangaroo, hopping along
in big bounds because the Sawhorse was going so fast; "and they have a
fine cook, too, if you can manage to put him together. There's the town
now--just ahead of us!"

They looked ahead and saw a group of very pretty houses standing in a
green field a little apart from the main road.

"Some Munchkins came here a few days ago and matched a lot of people
together," said the kangaroo. "I think they are together yet, and if you
go softly, without making any noise, perhaps they won't scatter."

"Let's try it," suggested the Wizard.

So they stopped the Sawhorse and got out of the wagon, and, after
bidding good bye to the kangaroo, who hopped away home, they entered the
field and very cautiously approached the group of houses.

So silently did they move that soon they saw through the windows of the
houses, people moving around, while others were passing to and fro in
the yards between the buildings. They seemed much like other people,
from a distance, and apparently they did not notice the little party so
quietly approaching.

They had almost reached the nearest house when Toto saw a large beetle
crossing the path and barked loudly at it. Instantly a wild clatter was
heard from the houses and yards. Dorothy thought it sounded like a
sudden hailstorm, and the visitors, knowing that caution was no longer
necessary, hurried forward to see what had happened.

After the clatter an intense stillness reigned in the town. The
strangers entered the first house they came to, which was also the
largest, and found the floor strewn with pieces of the people who lived
there. They looked much like fragments of wood neatly painted, and were
of all sorts of curious and fantastic shapes, no two pieces being in any
way alike.

They picked up some of these pieces and looked at them carefully. On one
which Dorothy held was an eye, which looked at her pleasantly but with
an interested expression, as if it wondered what she was going to do
with it. Quite near by she discovered and picked up a nose, and by
matching the two pieces together found that they were part of a face.

"If I could find the mouth," she said, "this Fuddle might be able to
talk, and tell us what to do next."

"Then let us find it," replied the Wizard, and so all got down on their
hands and knees and began examining the scattered pieces.

"I've found it!" cried the Shaggy Man, and ran to Dorothy with a
queer-shaped piece that had a mouth on it. But when they tried to fit it
to the eye and nose they found the parts wouldn't match together.

"That mouth belongs to some other person," said Dorothy. "You see we
need a curve here and a point there, to make it fit the face."

"Well, it must be here some place," declared the Wizard; "so if we
search long enough we shall find it."

Dorothy fitted an ear on next, and the ear had a little patch of red
hair above it. So while the others were searching for the mouth she
hunted for pieces with red hair, and found several of them which, when
matched to the other pieces, formed the top of a man's head. She had
also found the other eye and the ear by the time Omby Amby in a far
corner discovered the mouth. When the face was thus completed all the
parts joined together with a nicety that was astonishing.

"Why, it's like a picture puzzle!" exclaimed the little girl. "Let's
find the rest of him, and get him all together."

"What's the rest of him like?" asked the Wizard. "Here are some pieces
of blue legs and green arms, but I don't know whether they are his or
not."

"Look for a white shirt and a white apron," said the head which had been
put together, speaking in a rather faint voice. "I'm the cook."

[Illustration: "I'M THE COOK".]

"Oh, thank you," said Dorothy. "It's lucky we started you first, for I'm
hungry, and you can be cooking something for us to eat while we match
the other folks together."

It was not so very difficult, now that they had a hint as to how the man
was dressed, to find the other pieces belonging to him, and as all of
them now worked on the cook, trying piece after piece to see if it would
fit, they finally had the cook set up complete.

When he was finished he made them a low bow and said:

"I will go at once to the kitchen and prepare your dinner. You will find
it something of a job to get all the Fuddles together, so I advise you
to begin on the Lord High Chigglewitz, whose first name is Larry. He's a
bald-headed fat man and is dressed in a blue coat with brass buttons, a
pink vest and drab breeches. A piece of his left knee is missing, having
been lost years ago when he scattered himself too carelessly. That makes
him limp a little, but he gets along very well with half a knee. As he
is the chief personage in this town of Fuddlecumjig, he will be able to
welcome you and assist you with the others. So it will be best to work
on him while I'm getting your dinner."

"We will," said the Wizard; "and thank you very much, Cook, for the
suggestion."

Aunt Em was the first to discover a piece of the Lord High Chigglewitz.

"It seems to me like a fool business, this matching folks together," she
remarked; "but as we haven't anything to do till dinner's ready we may
as well get rid of some of this rubbish. Here, Henry, get busy and
look for Larry's bald head. I've got his pink vest, all right."

They worked with eager interest, and Billina proved a great help to
them. The Yellow Hen had sharp eyes and could put her head close to the
various pieces that lay scattered around. She would examine the Lord
High Chigglewitz and see which piece of him was next needed, and then
hunt around until she found it. So before an hour had passed old Larry
was standing complete before them.

"I congratulate you, my friends," he said, speaking in a cheerful voice.
"You are certainly the cleverest people who ever visited us. I was never
matched together so quickly in my life. I'm considered a great puzzle,
usually."

"Well," said Dorothy, "there used to be a picture puzzle craze in
Kansas, and so I've had some 'sperience matching puzzles. But the
pictures were flat, while you are round, and that makes you harder to
figure out."

"Thank you, my dear," replied old Larry, greatly pleased. "I feel highly
complimented. Were I not a really good puzzle there would be no object
in my scattering myself."

"Why do you do it?" asked Aunt Em, severely. "Why don't you behave
yourself, and stay put together?"

The Lord High Chigglewitz seemed annoyed by this speech; but he replied,
politely:

"Madam, you have perhaps noticed that every person has some
peculiarity. Mine is to scatter myself. What your own peculiarity is I
will not venture to say; but I shall never find fault with you, whatever
you do."

"Now, you've got your diploma, Em," said Uncle Henry, with a laugh, "and
I'm glad of it. This is a queer country, and we may as well take people
as we find them."

"If we did, we'd leave these folks scattered," she returned, and this
retort made everybody laugh good-naturedly.

Just then Omby Amby found a hand with a knitting needle in it, and they
decided to put Grandmother Gnit together. She proved an easier puzzle
than old Larry, and when she was completed they found her a pleasant old
lady who welcomed them cordially. Dorothy told her how the kangaroo had
lost her mittens, and Grandmother Gnit promised to set to work at once
and make the poor animal another pair.

Then the cook came to call them to dinner, and they found an inviting
meal prepared for them. The Lord High Chigglewitz sat at the head of the
table and Grandmother Gnit at the foot, and the guests had a merry time
and thoroughly enjoyed themselves.

After dinner they went out into the yard and matched several other
people together, and this work was so interesting that they might have
spent the entire day at Fuddlecumjig had not the Wizard suggested that
they resume their journey.

"But I don't like to leave all these poor people scattered," said
Dorothy, undecided what to do.

[Illustration]

"Oh, don't mind us, my dear," returned old Larry. "Every day or so some
of the Gillikins, or Munchkins, or Winkies come here to amuse themselves
by matching us together, so there will be no harm in leaving these
pieces where they are for a time. But I hope you will visit us again,
and if you do you will always be welcome, I assure you."

"Don't you ever match each other?" she inquired.

"Never; for we are no puzzles to ourselves, and so there wouldn't be any
fun in it."

They now said goodbye to the queer Fuddles and got into their wagon to
continue their journey.

"Those are certainly strange people," remarked Aunt Em, thoughtfully, as
they drove away from Fuddlecumjig, "but I really can't see what use they
are, at all."

"Why, they amused us all for several hours," replied the Wizard. "That
is being of use to us, I'm sure."

"I think they're more fun than playing solitaire or mumbletypeg,"
declared Uncle Henry, soberly. "For my part, I'm glad we visited the
Fuddles."




_How_ THE GENERAL TALKED TO THE KING

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

[Illustration]


When General Guph returned to the cavern of the Nome King his Majesty
asked:

"Well, what luck? Will the Whimsies join us?"

"They will," answered the General. "They will fight for us with all
their strength and cunning."

"Good!" exclaimed the King. "What reward did you promise them?"

"Your Majesty is to use the Magic Belt to give each Whimsie a large,
fine head, in place of the small one he is now obliged to wear."

"I agree to that," said the King. "This is good news, Guph, and it makes
me feel more certain of the conquest of Oz."

"But I have other news for you," announced the General.

"Good or bad?"

"Good, your Majesty."

"Then I will hear it," said the King, with interest.

"The Growleywogs will join us."

"No!" cried the astonished King.

"Yes, indeed," said the General. "I have their promise."

"But what reward do they demand?" inquired the King, suspiciously, for
he knew how greedy the Growleywogs were.

"They are to take a few of the Oz people for their slaves," replied
Guph. He did not think it necessary to tell Roquat that the Growleywogs
demanded twenty thousand slaves. It would be time enough for that when
Oz was conquered.

"A very reasonable request, I'm sure," remarked the King. "I must
congratulate you, Guph, upon the wonderful success of your journey."

"But that is not all," said the General, proudly.

The King seemed astonished.

"Speak out, sir!" he commanded.

"I have seen the First and Foremost Phanfasm of the Mountain of
Phantastico, and he will bring his people to assist us."

"What!" cried the King. "The Phanfasms! You don't mean it, Guph!"

"It is true," declared the General, proudly.

The King became thoughtful, and his brows wrinkled.

"I'm afraid, Guph," he said rather anxiously, "that the First and
Foremost may prove as dangerous to us as to the Oz people. If he and his
terrible band come down from the mountain they may take the notion to
conquer the Nomes!"

"Pah! That is a foolish idea," retorted Guph, irritably, but he knew in
his heart that the King was right. "The First and Foremost is a
particular friend of mine, and will do us no harm. Why, when I was
there, he even invited me into his house."

The General neglected to tell the King how he had been jerked into the
hut of the First and Foremost by means of the brass hoop. So Roquat the
Red looked at his General admiringly and said:

"You are a wonderful Nome, Guph. I'm sorry I did not make you my General
before. But what reward did the First and Foremost demand?"

"Nothing at all," answered Guph. "Even the Magic Belt itself could not
add to his powers of sorcery. All the Phanfasms wish is to destroy the
Oz people, who are good and happy. This pleasure will amply repay them
for assisting us."

"When will they come?" asked Roquat, half fearfully.

"When the tunnel is completed," said the General.

"We are nearly half way under the desert now," announced the King; "and
that is fast work, because the tunnel has to be drilled through solid
rock. But after we have passed the desert it will not take us long to
extend the tunnel to the walls of the Emerald City."

"Well, whenever you are ready, we shall be joined by the Whimsies, the
Growleywogs and the Phanfasms," said Guph; "so the conquest of Oz is
assured without a doubt."

Again the King seemed thoughtful.

"I'm almost sorry we did not undertake the conquest alone," said he.
"All of these allies are dangerous people, and they may demand more than
you have promised them. It might have been better to have conquered Oz
without any outside assistance."

"We could not do it," said the General, positively.

"Why not, Guph?"

"You know very well. You have had one experience with the Oz people, and
they defeated you."

"That was because they rolled eggs at us," replied the King, with a
shudder. "My Nomes cannot stand eggs, any more than I can myself. They
are poison to all who live underground."

"That is true enough," agreed Guph.

"But we might have taken the Oz people by surprise, and conquered them
before they had a chance to get any eggs. Our former defeat was due to
the fact that the girl Dorothy had a Yellow Hen with her. I do not know
what ever became of that hen, but I believe there are no hens at all in
the Land of Oz, and so there could be no eggs there."

"On the contrary," said Guph, "there are now hundreds of chickens in Oz,
and they lay heaps of those dangerous eggs. I met a goshawk on my way
home, and the bird informed me that he had lately been to Oz to capture
and devour some of the young chickens. But they are protected by magic,
so the hawk did not get a single one of them."

[Illustration]

"That is a very bad report," said the King, nervously. "Very bad,
indeed. My Nomes are willing to fight, but they simply can't face hen's
eggs--and I don't blame them."

"They won't need to face them," replied Guph. "I'm afraid of eggs
myself, and don't propose to take any chances of being poisoned by them.
My plan is to send the Whimsies through the tunnel first, and then the
Growleywogs and the Phanfasms. By the time we Nomes get there the eggs
will all be used up, and we may then pursue and capture the inhabitants
at our leisure."

"Perhaps you are right," returned the King, with a dismal sigh. "But I
want it distinctly understood that I claim Ozma and Dorothy as my own
prisoners. They are rather nice girls, and I do not intend to let any of
those dreadful creatures hurt them, or make them their slaves. When I
have captured them I will bring them here and transform them into china
ornaments to stand on my mantle. They will look very pretty--Dorothy on
one end of the mantle and Ozma on the other--and I shall take great care
to see they are not broken when the maids dust them."

"Very well, your Majesty. Do what you will with the girls, for all I
care. Now that our plans are arranged, and we have the three most
powerful bands of evil spirits in the world to assist us, let us make
haste to get the tunnel finished as soon as possible."

"It will be ready in three days," promised the King, and hurried away to
inspect the work and see that the Nomes kept busy.




_How_ THE WIZARD PRACTICED SORCERY

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

[Illustration]


"Where next?" asked the Wizard, when they had left the town of
Fuddlecumjig and the Sawhorse had started back along the road.

"Why, Ozma laid out this trip," replied Dorothy, "and she 'vised us to
see the Rigmaroles next, and then visit the Tin Woodman."

"That sounds good," said the Wizard. "But what road do we take to get to
the Rigmaroles?"

"I don't know, 'zactly," returned the little girl; "but it must be
somewhere just southwest from here."

"Then why need we go way back to the crossroads?" asked the Shaggy Man.
"We might save a lot of time by branching off here."

"There isn't any path," asserted Uncle Henry.

"Then we'd better go back to the signposts, and make sure of our way,"
decided Dorothy.

But after they had gone a short distance farther the Sawhorse, who had
overheard their conversation, stopped and said:

"Here is a path."

Sure enough, a dim path seemed to branch off from the road they were on,
and it led across pretty green meadows and past leafy groves, straight
toward the southwest.

"That looks like a good path," said Omby Amby. "Why not try it?"

"All right," answered Dorothy. "I'm anxious to see what the Rigmaroles
are like, and this path ought to take us there the quickest way."

No one made any objection to the plan, so the Sawhorse turned into the
path, which proved to be nearly as good as the one they had taken to get
to the Fuddles.

At first they passed a few retired farm houses, but soon these scattered
dwellings were left behind and only the meadows and the trees were
before them. But they rode along in cheerful contentment, and Aunt Em
got into an argument with Billina about the proper way to raise
chickens.

"I do not care to contradict you," said the Yellow Hen, with dignity,
"but I have an idea I know more about chickens than human beings do."

"Pshaw!" replied Aunt Em, "I've raised chickens for nearly forty years,
Billina, and I know you've got to starve 'em to make 'em lay lots of
eggs, and stuff 'em if you want good broilers."

"Broilers!" exclaimed Billina, in horror. "Broil my chickens!"

"Why, that's what they're for, ain't it?" asked Aunt Em, astonished.

"No, Aunt, not in Oz," said Dorothy. "People do not eat chickens here.
You see, Billina was the first hen that was ever seen in this country,
and I brought her here myself. Everybody liked her an' respected her, so
the Oz people wouldn't any more eat her chickens than they would eat
Billina."

"Well, I declare," gasped Aunt Em. "How about the eggs?"

"Oh, if we have more eggs than we want to hatch, we allow people to eat
them," said Billina. "Indeed, I am very glad the Oz folks like our eggs,
for otherwise they would spoil."

"This certainly is a queer country," sighed Aunt Em.

"Excuse me," called the Sawhorse, "the path has ended and I'd like to
know which way to go."

They looked around and, sure enough, there was no path to be seen.

"Well," said Dorothy, "we're going southwest, and it seems just as easy
to follow that direction without a path as with one."

"Certainly," answered the Sawhorse. "It is not hard to draw the wagon
over the meadow. I only want to know where to go."

"There's a forest over there across the prairie," said the Wizard, "and
it lies in the direction we are going. Make straight for the forest,
Sawhorse, and you're bound to go right."

So the wooden animal trotted on again and the meadow grass was so soft
under the wheels that it made easy riding. But Dorothy was a little
uneasy at losing the path, because now there was nothing to guide them.

No houses were to be seen at all, so they could not ask their way of any
farmer; and although the Land of Oz was always beautiful, wherever one
might go, this part of the country was strange to all the party.

"Perhaps we're lost," suggested Aunt Em, after they had proceeded quite
a way in silence.

"Never mind," said the Shaggy Man; "I've been lost many a time--and so
has Dorothy--and we've always been found again."

"But we may get hungry," remarked Omby Amby. "That is the worst of
getting lost in a place where there are no houses near."

"We had a good dinner at the Fuddle town," said Uncle Henry, "and that
will keep us from starving to death for a long time."

"No one ever starved to death in Oz," declared Dorothy, positively; "but
people may get pretty hungry sometimes."

The Wizard said nothing, and he did not seem especially anxious. The
Sawhorse was trotting along briskly, yet the forest seemed farther away
than they had thought when they first saw it. So it was nearly sundown
when they finally came to the trees; but now they found themselves in a
most beautiful spot, the wide-spreading trees being covered with
flowering vines and having soft mosses underneath them.

"This will be a good place to camp," said the Wizard, as the Sawhorse
stopped for further instructions.

"Camp!" they all echoed.

"Certainly," asserted the Wizard. "It will be dark before very long and
we cannot travel through this forest at night. So let us make a camp
here, and have some supper, and sleep until daylight comes again."

They all looked at the little man in astonishment, and Aunt Em said,
with a sniff:

"A pretty camp we'll have, I must say! I suppose you intend us to sleep
under the wagon."

"And chew grass for our supper," added the Shaggy Man, laughing.

But Dorothy seemed to have no doubts and was quite cheerful.

"It's lucky we have the wonderful Wizard with us," she said; "because he
can do 'most anything he wants to."

"Oh, yes; I forgot we had a Wizard," said Uncle Henry, looking at the
little man curiously.

"I didn't," chirped Billina, contentedly.

The Wizard smiled and climbed out of the wagon, and all the others
followed him.

"In order to camp," said he, "the first thing we need is tents. Will
some one please lend me a handkerchief?"

The Shaggy Man offered him one, and Aunt Em another. He took them both
and laid them carefully upon the grass near to the edge of the forest.
Then he laid his own handkerchief down, too, and standing a little back
from them he waved his left hand toward the handkerchiefs and said:

        "Tents of canvas, white as snow,
        Let me see how fast you grow!"

Then, lo and behold! the handkerchiefs became tiny tents, and as the
travelers looked at them the tents grew bigger and bigger until in a few
minutes each one was large enough to contain the entire party.

"This," said the Wizard, pointing to the first tent, "is for the
accommodation of the ladies. Dorothy, you and your Aunt may step inside
and take off your things."

Every one ran to look inside the tent, and they saw two pretty white
beds, all ready for Dorothy and Aunt Em, and a silver roost for Billina.
Rugs were spread upon the grassy floor and some camp chairs and a table
completed the furniture.

"Well, well, well! This beats anything I ever saw or heard of!"
exclaimed Aunt Em, and she glanced at the Wizard almost fearfully, as if
he might be dangerous because of his great powers.

"Oh, Mr. Wizard! How did you manage to do it?" asked Dorothy.

"It's a trick Glinda the Sorceress taught me, and it is much better
magic than I used to practise in Omaha, or when I first came to Oz," he
answered. "When the Good Glinda found I was to live in the Emerald City
always, she promised to help me, because she said the Wizard of Oz ought
really to be a clever Wizard, and not a humbug. So we have been much
together and I am learning so fast that I expect to be able to
accomplish some really wonderful things in time."

"You've done it now!" declared Dorothy. "These tents are just
wonderful!"

"But come and see the men's tent," said the Wizard. So they went to the
second tent, which had shaggy edges because it had been made from the
Shaggy Man's handkerchief, and found that completely furnished also. It
contained four neat beds for Uncle Henry, Omby Amby, the Shaggy Man and
the Wizard. Also there was a soft rug for Toto to lie upon.

"The third tent," explained the Wizard, "is our dining room and
kitchen."

They visited that next, and found a table and dishes in the dining tent,
with plenty of those things necessary to use in cooking. The Wizard
carried out a big kettle and set it swinging on a crossbar before the
tent. While he was doing this Omby Amby and the Shaggy Man brought a
supply of twigs from the forest and then they built a fire underneath
the kettle.

"Now, Dorothy," said the Wizard, smiling, "I expect you to cook our
supper."

"But there is nothing in the kettle," she cried.

"Are you sure?" inquired the Wizard.

"I didn't see anything put in, and I'm almost sure it was empty when you
brought it out," she replied.

"Nevertheless," said the little man, winking slyly at Uncle Henry, "you
will do well to watch our supper, my dear, and see that it doesn't boil
over."

Then the men took some pails and went into the forest to search for a
spring of water, and while they were gone Aunt Em said to Dorothy:

"I believe the Wizard is fooling us. I saw the kettle myself, and when
he hung it over the fire there wasn't a thing in it but air."

[Illustration]

"Don't worry," remarked Billina, confidently, as she nestled in the
grass before the fire. "You'll find something in the kettle when it's
taken off--and it won't be poor, innocent chickens, either."

"Your hen has very bad manners, Dorothy," said Aunt Em, looking somewhat
disdainfully at Billina. "It seems too bad she ever learned how to
talk."

There might have been another unpleasant quarrel between Aunt Em and
Billina had not the men returned just then with their pails filled with
clear, sparkling water. The Wizard told Dorothy that she was a good cook
and he believed their supper was ready.

So Uncle Henry lifted the kettle from the fire and poured its contents
into a big platter which the Wizard held for him. The platter was fairly
heaped with a fine stew, smoking hot, with many kinds of vegetables and
dumplings and a rich, delicious gravy.

The Wizard triumphantly placed the platter upon the table in the dining
tent and then they all sat down in camp chairs to the feast.

There were several other dishes on the table, all carefully covered, and
when the time came to remove these covers they found bread and butter,
cakes, cheese, pickles and fruits--including some of the luscious
strawberries of Oz.

No one ventured to ask a question as to how these things came there.
They contented themselves by eating heartily the good things provided,
and Toto and Billina had their full share, you may be sure. After the
meal was over Aunt Em whispered to Dorothy:

"That may have been magic food, my dear, and for that reason perhaps it
won't be very nourishing; but I'm willing to say it tasted as good as
anything I ever et." Then she added, in a louder tone: "Who's going to
do the dishes?"

"No one, madam," answered the Wizard. "The dishes have 'done'
themselves."

"La sakes!" ejaculated the good lady, holding up her hands in amazement.
For, sure enough, when she looked at the dishes they had a moment before
left upon the table, she found them all washed and dried and piled up
into neat stacks.

[Illustration]




_How_ DOROTHY HAPPENED TO GET LOST

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

[Illustration]


It was a beautiful evening, so they drew their camp chairs in a circle
before one of the tents and began to tell stories to amuse themselves
and pass away the time before they went to bed.

Pretty soon a zebra was seen coming out of the forest, and he trotted
straight up to them and said politely:

"Good evening, people."

The zebra was a sleek little animal and had a slender head, a stubby
mane and a paint-brush tail--very like a donkey's. His neatly shaped
white body was covered with regular bars of dark brown, and his hoofs
were delicate as those of a deer.

"Good evening, friend Zebra," said Omby Amby, in reply to the creature's
greeting. "Can we do anything for you?"

"Yes," answered the zebra. "I should like you to settle a dispute that
has long been a bother to me, as to whether there is more water or land
in the world."

"Who are you disputing with?" asked the Wizard.

"With a soft-shell crab," said the zebra. "He lives in a pool where I go
to drink every day, and he is a very impertinent crab, I assure you. I
have told him many times that the land is much greater in extent than
the water, but he will not be convinced. Even this very evening, when I
told him he was an insignificant creature who lived in a small pool, he
asserted that the water was greater and more important than the land.
So, seeing your camp, I decided to ask you to settle the dispute for
once and all, that I may not be further annoyed by this ignorant crab."

When they had listened to this explanation Dorothy inquired:

"Where is the soft-shell crab?"

"Not far away," replied the zebra. "If you will agree to judge between
us I will run and get him."

"Run along, then," said the little girl.

So the animal pranced into the forest and soon came trotting back to
them. When he drew near they found a soft-shell crab clinging fast to
the stiff hair of the zebra's head, where it held on by one claw.

"Now then, Mr. Crab," said the zebra, "here are the people I told you
about; and they know more than you do, who live in a pool, and more than
I do, who live in a forest. For they have been travelers all over the
world, and know every part of it."

"There's more of the world than Oz," declared the crab, in a stubborn
voice.

"That is true," said Dorothy; "but I used to live in Kansas, in the
United States, and I've been to California and to Australia--and so has
Uncle Henry."

"For my part," added the Shaggy Man, "I've been to Mexico and Boston and
many other foreign countries."

"And I," said the Wizard, "have been to Europe and Ireland."

"So you see," continued the zebra, addressing the crab, "here are people
of real consequence, who know what they are talking about."

"Then they know there's more water in the world than there is land,"
asserted the crab, in a shrill, petulant voice.

"They know you are wrong to make such an absurd statement, and they will
probably think you are a lobster instead of a crab," retorted the
animal.

At this taunt the crab reached out its other claw and seized the zebra's
ear, and the creature gave a cry of pain and began prancing up and down,
trying to shake off the crab, which clung fast.

"Stop pinching!" cried the zebra. "You promised not to pinch if I would
carry you here!"

"And you promised to treat me respectfully," said the crab, letting go
the ear.

"Well, haven't I?" demanded the zebra.

"No; you called me a lobster," said the crab.

"Ladies and gentlemen," continued the zebra, "please pardon my poor
friend, because he is ignorant and stupid, and does not understand. Also
the pinch of his claw is very annoying. So pray tell him that the world
contains more land than water, and when he has heard your judgment I
will carry him back and dump him into his pool, where I hope he will be
more modest in the future."

"But we cannot tell him that," said Dorothy, gravely, "because it would
not be true."

"What!" exclaimed the zebra, in astonishment; "do I hear you aright?"

"The soft-shell crab is correct," declared the Wizard. "There is
considerably more water than there is land in the world."

"Impossible!" protested the zebra. "Why, I can run for days upon the
land, and find but little water."

"Did you ever see an ocean?" asked Dorothy.

"Never," admitted the zebra. "There is no such thing as an ocean in the
Land of Oz."


"Well, there are several oceans in the world," said Dorothy, "and people
sail in ships upon these oceans for weeks and weeks, and never see a bit
of land at all. And the joggerfys will tell you that all the oceans put
together are bigger than all the land put together."

At this the crab began laughing in queer chuckles that reminded Dorothy
of the way Billina sometimes cackled.

"_Now_ will you give up, Mr. Zebra?" it cried, jeeringly; "now will you
give up?"

The zebra seemed much humbled.

"Of course I cannot read geographys," he said.

"You could take one of the Wizard's School Pills," suggested Billina,
"and that would make you learned and wise without studying."

The crab began laughing again, which so provoked the zebra that he tried
to shake the little creature off. This resulted in more ear-pinching,
and finally Dorothy told them that if they could not behave they must go
back to the forest.

"I'm sorry I asked you to decide this question," said the zebra,
crossly. "So long as neither of us could prove we were right we quite
enjoyed the dispute; but now I can never drink at that pool again
without the soft-shell crab laughing at me. So I must find another
drinking place."

"Do! Do, you ignoramus!" shouted the crab, as loudly as his little
voice would carry. "Rile some other pool with your clumsy hoofs, and let
your betters alone after this!"

Then the zebra trotted back to the forest, bearing the crab with him,
and disappeared amid the gloom of the trees. And as it was now getting
dark the travelers said good night to one another and went to bed.

[Illustration]

Dorothy awoke just as the light was beginning to get strong next
morning, and not caring to sleep any later she quietly got out of bed,
dressed herself, and left the tent where Aunt Em was yet peacefully
slumbering.

Outside she noticed Billina busily pecking around to secure bugs or
other food for breakfast, but none of the men in the other tent seemed
awake. So the little girl decided to take a walk in the woods and try to
discover some path or road that they might follow when they again
started upon their journey.

She had reached the edge of the forest when the Yellow Hen came
fluttering along and asked where she was going.

"Just to take a walk, Billina; and maybe I'll find some path," said
Dorothy.

"Then I'll go along," decided Billina, and scarcely had she spoken when
Toto ran up and joined them.

Toto and the Yellow Hen had become quite friendly by this time, although
at first they did not get along well together. Billina had been rather
suspicious of dogs, and Toto had had an idea that it was every dog's
duty to chase a hen on sight. But Dorothy had talked to them and scolded
them for not being agreeable to one another until they grew better
acquainted and became friends.

I won't say they loved each other dearly, but at least they had stopped
quarreling and now managed to get on together very well.

The day was growing lighter every minute and driving the black shadows
out of the forest; so Dorothy found it very pleasant walking under the
trees. She went some distance in one direction, but not finding a path,
presently turned in a different direction. There was no path here,
either, although she advanced quite a way into the forest, winding here
and there among the trees and peering through the bushes in an endeavor
to find some beaten track.

"I think we'd better go back," suggested the Yellow Hen, after a time.
"The people will all be up by this time and breakfast will be ready."

"Very well," agreed Dorothy. "Let's see--the camp must be over this
way."

She had probably made a mistake about that, for after they had gone far
enough to have reached the camp they still found themselves in the thick
of the woods. So the little girl stopped short and looked around her,
and Toto glanced up into her face with his bright little eyes and wagged
his tail as if he knew something was wrong. He couldn't tell much about
direction himself, because he had spent his time prowling among the
bushes and running here and there; nor had Billina paid much attention
to where they were going, being interested in picking bugs from the moss
as they passed along. The Yellow Hen now turned one eye up toward the
little girl and asked:

"Have you forgotten where the camp is, Dorothy?"

"Yes," she admitted; "have you, Billina?"

"I didn't try to remember," returned Billina. "I'd no idea you would get
lost, Dorothy."

"It's the thing we don't expect, Billina, that usually happens,"
observed the girl, thoughtfully. "But it's no use standing here. Let's
go in that direction," pointing a finger at random. "It may be we'll get
out of the forest over there."

So on they went again, but this way the trees were closer together, and
the vines were so tangled that often they tripped Dorothy up.

Suddenly a voice cried sharply:

"Halt!"

[Illustration: "HALT!"]

At first Dorothy could see nothing, although she looked around very
carefully. But Billina exclaimed:

"Well, I declare!"

"What is it?" asked the little girl: for Toto began barking at
something, and following his gaze she discovered what it was.

A row of spoons had surrounded the three, and these spoons stood
straight up on their handles and carried swords and muskets. Their faces
were outlined in the polished bowls and they looked very stern and
severe.

Dorothy laughed at the queer things.

"Who are you?" she asked.

"We're the Spoon Brigade," said one.

"In the service of his Majesty King Kleaver," said another.

"And you are our prisoners," said a third.

Dorothy sat down on an old stump and looked at them, her eyes twinkling
with amusement.

"What would happen," she inquired, "if I should set my dog on your
Brigade?"

"He would die," replied one of the spoons, sharply. "One shot from our
deadly muskets would kill him, big as he is."

"Don't risk it, Dorothy," advised the Yellow Hen. "Remember this is a
fairy country, yet none of us three happens to be a fairy."

Dorothy grew sober at this.

"P'raps you're right, Billina," she answered. "But how funny it is, to
be captured by a lot of spoons!"

"I do not see anything very funny about it," declared a spoon. "We're
the regular military brigade of the kingdom."

"What kingdom?" she asked.

"Utensia," said he.

"I never heard of it before," asserted Dorothy. Then she added,
thoughtfully, "I don't believe Ozma ever heard of Utensia, either. Tell
me, are you not subjects of Ozma of Oz?"

"We never have heard of her," retorted a spoon. "We are subjects of King
Kleaver, and obey only his orders, which are to bring all prisoners to
him as soon as they are captured. So step lively, my girl, and march
with us, or we may be tempted to cut off a few of your toes with our
swords."

This threat made Dorothy laugh again. She did not believe she was in any
danger; but here was a new and interesting adventure, so she was willing
to be taken to Utensia that she might see what King Kleaver's kingdom
was like.

[Illustration]




_How_ DOROTHY VISITED UTENSIA

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

[Illustration]


There must have been from six to eight dozen spoons in the Brigade, and
they marched away in the shape of a hollow square, with Dorothy, Billina
and Toto in the center of the square. Before they had gone very far Toto
knocked over one of the spoons by wagging his tail, and then the Captain
of the Spoons told the little dog to be more careful, or he would be
punished. So Toto was careful, and the Spoon Brigade moved along with
astonishing swiftness, while Dorothy really had to walk fast to keep up
with it.

By and by they left the woods and entered a big clearing, in which was
the Kingdom of Utensia.

Standing all around the clearing were a good many cookstoves, ranges and
grills, of all sizes and shapes, and besides these there were several
kitchen cabinets and cupboards and a few kitchen tables. These things
were crowded with utensils of all sorts: frying pans, sauce pans,
kettles, forks, knives, basting and soup spoons, nutmeg graters,
sifters, colenders, meat saws, flat irons, rolling pins and many other
things of a like nature.

When the Spoon Brigade appeared with the prisoners a wild shout arose
and many of the utensils hopped off their stoves or their benches and
ran crowding around Dorothy and the hen and the dog.

"Stand back!" cried the Captain, sternly, and he led his captives
through the curious throng until they came before a big range that stood
in the center of the clearing. Beside this range was a butcher's block
upon which lay a great cleaver with a keen edge. It rested upon the flat
of its back, its legs were crossed and it was smoking a long pipe.

[Illustration]

"Wake up, your Majesty," said the Captain. "Here are prisoners."

Hearing this, King Kleaver sat up and looked at Dorothy sharply.

"Gristle and fat!" he cried. "Where did this girl come from?"

"I found her in the forest and brought her here a prisoner," replied the
Captain.

"Why did you do that?" inquired the King, puffing his pipe lazily.

"To create some excitement," the Captain answered. "It is so quiet
here that we are all getting rusty for want of amusement. For my part, I
prefer to see stirring times."

"Naturally," returned the cleaver, with a nod. "I have always said,
Captain, without a bit of irony, that you are a sterling officer and a
solid citizen, bowled and polished to a degree. But what do you expect
me to do with these prisoners?"

"That is for you to decide," declared the Captain. "You are the King."

"To be sure; to be sure," muttered the cleaver, musingly. "As you say,
we have had dull times since the steel and grindstone eloped and left
us. Command my Counselors and the Royal Courtiers to attend me, as well
as the High Priest and the Judge. We'll then decide what can be done."

The Captain saluted and retired and Dorothy sat down on an overturned
kettle and asked:

"Have you anything to eat in your kingdom?"

"Here! Get up! Get off from me!" cried a faint voice, at which his
Majesty the cleaver said:

"Excuse me, but you're sitting on my friend the Ten-quart Kettle."

Dorothy at once arose, and the kettle turned right side up and looked at
her reproachfully.

"I'm a friend of the King, so no one dares sit on me," said he.

"I'd prefer a chair, anyway," she replied.

"Sit on that hearth," commanded the King.

So Dorothy sat on the hearth-shelf of the big range, and the subjects of
Utensia began to gather around in a large and inquisitive throng. Toto
lay at Dorothy's feet and Billina flew upon the range, which had no fire
in it, and perched there as comfortably as she could.

When all the Counselors and Courtiers had assembled--and these seemed to
include most of the inhabitants of the kingdom--the King rapped on the
block for order and said:

"Friends and Fellow Utensils! Our worthy Commander of the Spoon Brigade,
Captain Dipp, has captured the three prisoners you see before you and
brought them here for--for--I don't know what for. So I ask your advice
how to act in this matter, and what fate I should mete out to these
captives. Judge Sifter, stand on my right. It is your business to sift
this affair to the bottom. High Priest Colender, stand on my left and
see that no one testifies falsely in this matter."

As these two officials took their places Dorothy asked:

"Why is the colender the High Priest?"

"He's the holiest thing we have in the kingdom," replied King Kleaver.

"Except me," said a sieve. "I'm the whole thing when it comes to
holes."

"What we need," remarked the King, rebukingly, "is a wireless sieve. I
must speak to Marconi about it. These old fashioned sieves talk too
much. Now, it is the duty of the King's Counselors to counsel the King
at all times of emergency, so I beg you to speak out and advise me what
to do with these prisoners."

"I demand that they be killed several times, until they are dead!"
shouted a pepperbox, hopping around very excitedly.

"Compose yourself, Mr. Paprica," advised the King. "Your remarks are
piquant and highly-seasoned, but you need a scattering of commonsense.
It is only necessary to kill a person once to make him dead; but I do
not see that it is necessary to kill this little girl at all."

"I don't, either," said Dorothy.

"Pardon me, but you are not expected to advise me in this matter,"
replied King Kleaver.

"Why not?" asked Dorothy.

"You might be prejudiced in your own favor, and so mislead us," he said.
"Now then, good subjects, who speaks next?"

"I'd like to smooth this thing over, in some way," said a flatiron,
earnestly. "We are supposed to be useful to mankind, you know."

"But the girl isn't mankind! She's womankind!" yelled a corkscrew.

"What do you know about it?" inquired the King.

"I'm a lawyer," said the corkscrew, proudly. "I am accustomed to appear
at the bar."

"But you're crooked," retorted the King, "and that debars you. You may
be a corking good lawyer, Mr. Popp, but I must ask you to withdraw your
remarks."

"Very well," said the corkscrew, sadly; "I see I haven't any pull at
this court."

"Permit me," continued the flatiron, "to press my suit, your Majesty. I
do not wish to gloss over any fault the prisoner may have committed, if
such a fault exists; but we owe her some consideration, and that's
flat!"

"I'd like to hear from Prince Karver," said the King.

At this a stately carvingknife stepped forward and bowed.

"The Captain was wrong to bring this girl here, and she was wrong to
come," he said. "But now that the foolish deed is done let us all prove
our mettle and have a slashing good time."

"That's it! that's it!" screamed a fat choppingknife. "We'll make
mincemeat of the girl and hash of the chicken and sausage of the dog!"

There was a shout of approval at this and the King had to rap again for
order.

"Gentlemen, gentlemen!" he said, "your remarks are somewhat cutting and
rather disjointed, as might be expected from such acute intellects. But
you give no reasons for your demands."

"See here, Kleaver; you make me tired," exclaimed a saucepan, strutting
before the King very impudently. "You're about the worst King that ever
reigned in Utensia, and that's saying a good deal. Why don't you run
things yourself, instead of asking everybody's advice, like the big,
clumsy idiot you are?"

The King sighed.

"I wish there wasn't a saucepan in my kingdom," he said. "You fellows
are always stewing, over something, and every once in a while you slop
over and make a mess of it. Go hang yourself, sir--by the handle--and
don't let me hear from you again."

Dorothy was much shocked by the dreadful language the utensils employed,
and she thought that they must have had very little proper training. So
she said, addressing the King, who seemed very unfit to rule his
turbulent subjects:

"I wish you'd decide my fate right away. I can't stay here all day,
trying to find out what you're going to do with me."

"This thing is becoming a regular broil, and it's time I took part in
it," observed a big gridiron, coming forward.

"What I'd like to know," said a can-opener, in a shrill voice, "is why
the girl came to our forest, anyhow, and why she intruded upon Captain
Dipp--who ought to be called Dippy--and who she is, and where she came
from, and where she is going, and why and wherefore and therefore and
when."

"I'm sorry to see, Sir Jabber," remarked the King to the can-opener,
"that you have such a prying disposition. As a matter of fact, all the
things you mention are none of our business."

Having said this the King relighted his pipe, which had gone out.

"Tell me, please, what _is_ our business?" inquired a potato-masher,
winking at Dorothy somewhat impertinently. "I'm fond of little girls,
myself, and it seems to me she has as much right to wander in the forest
as we have."

"Who accuses the little girl, anyway?" inquired a rolling-pin. "What has
she done?"

"I don't know," said the King. "What has she done, Captain Dipp?"

"That's the trouble, your Majesty. She hasn't done anything," replied
the Captain.

"What do you want me to do?" asked Dorothy.

This question seemed to puzzle them all. Finally a chafingdish,
exclaimed, irritably:

"If no one can throw any light on this subject you must excuse me if I
go out."

At this a big kitchen fork pricked up its ears and said in a tiny voice:

"Let's hear from Judge Sifter."

"That's proper," returned the King.

So Judge Sifter turned around slowly several times and then said:

"We have nothing against the girl except the stove-hearth upon which she
sits. Therefore I order her instantly discharged."

"Discharged!" cried Dorothy. "Why, I never was discharged in my life,
and I don't intend to be. If its all the same to you, I'll resign."

"It's all the same," declared the King. "You are free--you and your
companions--and may go wherever you like."

"Thank you," said the little girl. "But haven't you anything to eat in
your kingdom? I'm hungry."

"Go into the woods and pick blackberries," advised the King, lying down
upon his back again and preparing to go to sleep. "There isn't a morsel
to eat in all Utensia, that I know of."

So Dorothy jumped up and said:

"Come on, Toto and Billina. If we can't find the camp we may find some
blackberries."

The utensils drew back and allowed them to pass without protest,
although Captain Dipp marched the Spoon Brigade in close order after
them until they had reached the edge of the clearing.

There the spoons halted; but Dorothy and her companions entered the
forest again and began searching diligently for a way back to the camp,
that they might rejoin their party.

[Illustration]




_How_ THEY CAME TO BUNBURY

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

[Illustration]


Wandering through the woods, without knowing where you are going or what
adventure you are about to meet next, is not as pleasant as one might
think. The woods are always beautiful and impressive, and if you are not
worried or hungry you may enjoy them immensely; but Dorothy was worried
and hungry that morning, so she paid little attention to the beauties of
the forest, and hurried along as fast as she could go. She tried to keep
in one direction and not circle around, but she was not at all sure that
the direction she had chosen would lead her to the camp.

By and by, to her great joy, she came upon a path. It ran to the right
and to the left, being lost in the trees in both directions, and just
before her, upon a big oak, were fastened two signs, with arms pointing
both ways. One sign read:

[Illustration: (hand pointing right)] TAKE THE OTHER ROAD TO BUNBURY

and the second sign read:

[Illustration: (hand pointing right)] TAKE THE OTHER ROAD TO BUNNYBURY

"Well!" exclaimed Billina, eyeing the signs, "this looks as if we were
getting back to civilization again."

"I'm not sure about the civil'zation, dear," replied the little girl;
"but it looks as if we might get _somewhere_, and that's a big relief,
anyhow."

"Which path shall we take?" inquired the Yellow Hen.

Dorothy stared at the signs thoughtfully.

"Bunbury sounds like something to eat," she said. "Let's go there."

"It's all the same to me," replied Billina. She had picked up enough
bugs and insects from the moss as she went along to satisfy her own
hunger, but the hen knew Dorothy could not eat bugs; nor could Toto.

The path to Bunbury seemed little traveled, but it was distinct enough
and ran through the trees in a zigzag course until it finally led them
to an open space filled with the queerest houses Dorothy had ever seen.
They were all made of crackers, laid out in tiny squares, and were of
many pretty and ornamental shapes, having balconies and porches with
posts of bread-sticks and roofs shingled with wafer-crackers.

There were walks of bread-crusts leading from house to house and
forming streets, and the place seemed to have many inhabitants.

When Dorothy, followed by Billina and Toto, entered the place, they
found people walking the streets or assembled in groups talking
together, or sitting upon the porches and balconies.

And what funny people they were!

Men, women, and children were all made of buns and bread. Some were thin
and others fat; some were white, some light brown and some very dark of
complexion. A few of the buns, which seemed to form the more important
class of the people, were neatly frosted. Some had raisins for eyes and
currant buttons on their clothes; others had eyes of cloves and legs of
stick cinnamon, and many wore hats and bonnets frosted pink and green.

There was something of a commotion in Bunbury when the strangers
suddenly appeared among them. Women caught up their children and hurried
into their houses, shutting the cracker doors carefully behind them.
Some men ran so hastily that they tumbled over one another, while
others, more brave, assembled in a group and faced the intruders
defiantly.

Dorothy at once realized that she must act with caution in order not to
frighten these shy people, who were evidently unused to the presence of
strangers. There was a delightful fragrant odor of fresh bread in the
town, and this made the little girl more hungry than ever. She told Toto
and Billina to stay back while she slowly advanced toward the group that
stood silently awaiting her.

"You must 'scuse me for coming unexpected," she said, softly, "but I
really didn't know I was coming here until I arrived. I was lost in the
woods, you know, and I'm as hungry as anything."

"Hungry!" they murmured, in a horrified chorus.

"Yes; I haven't had anything to eat since last night's supper," she
explained. "Are there any eatables in Bunbury?"

They looked at one another undecidedly, and then one portly bun man, who
seemed a person of consequence, stepped forward and said:

"Little girl, to be frank with you, we are all eatables. Everything in
Bunbury is eatable to ravenous human creatures like you. But it is to
escape being eaten and destroyed that we have secluded ourselves in this
out-of-the-way place, and there is neither right nor justice in your
coming here to feed upon us."

Dorothy looked at him longingly.

"You're bread, aren't you?" she asked.

"Yes; bread and butter. The butter is inside me, so it won't melt and
run. I do the running myself."

At this joke all the others burst into a chorus of laughter, and Dorothy
thought they couldn't be much afraid if they could laugh like that.

"Couldn't I eat something besides people?" she asked. "Couldn't I eat
just one house, or a side-walk, or something? I wouldn't mind much what
it was, you know."

"This is not a public bakery, child," replied the man, sternly. "It's
private property."

"I know Mr.--Mr.--"

"My name is C. Bunn, Esquire," said the man. "C stands for Cinnamon, and
this place is called after my family, which is the most aristocratic in
the town."

"Oh, I don't know about that," objected another of the queer people.
"The Grahams and the Browns and Whites are all excellent families, and
there are none better of their kind. I'm a Boston Brown, myself."

"I admit you are all desirable citizens," said Mr. Bunn, rather stiffly;
"but the fact remains that our town is called Bunbury."

"'Scuse me," interrupted Dorothy; "but I'm getting hungrier every
minute. Now, if you're polite and kind, as I'm sure you ought to be,
you'll let me eat _something_. There's so much to eat here that you
never will miss it."

Then a big, puffed-up man, of a delicate brown color, stepped forward
and said:

"I think it would be a shame to send this child away hungry, especially
as she agrees to eat whatever we can spare and not touch our people."

"So do I, Pop," replied a Roll who stood near.

"What, then, do you suggest, Mr. Over?" inquired Mr. Bunn.

"Why, I'll let her eat my back fence, if she wants to. It's made of
waffles, and they're very crisp and nice."

"She may also eat my wheelbarrow," added a pleasant looking Muffin.
"It's made of nabiscos with a zuzu wheel."

"Very good; very good," remarked Mr. Bunn. "That is certainly very kind
of you. Go with Pop Over and Mr. Muffin, little girl, and they will feed
you."

"Thank you very much," said Dorothy, gratefully. "May I bring my dog
Toto, and the Yellow Hen? They're hungry, too."

"Will you make them behave?" asked the Muffin.

"Of course," promised Dorothy.

"Then come along," said Pop Over.

So Dorothy and Billina and Toto walked up the street and the people
seemed no longer to be at all afraid of them. Mr. Muffin's house came
first, and as his wheelbarrow stood in the front yard the little girl
ate that first. It didn't seem very fresh, but she was so hungry that
she was not particular. Toto ate some, too, while Billina picked up the
crumbs.

While the strangers were engaged in eating, many of the people came and
stood in the street curiously watching them. Dorothy noticed six roguish
looking brown children standing all in a row, and she asked:

"Who are you, little ones?"

"We're the Graham Gems," replied one; "and we're all twins."

"I wonder if your mother could spare one or two of you?" asked Billina,
who decided that they were fresh baked; but at this dangerous question
the six little gems ran away as fast as they could go.

"You mustn't say such things, Billina," said Dorothy, reprovingly. "Now
let's go into Pop Over's back yard and get the waffles."

"I sort of hate to let that fence go," remarked Mr. Over, nervously, as
they walked toward his house. "The neighbors back of us are Soda
Biscuits, and I don't care to mix with them."

"But I'm hungry yet," declared the girl. "That wheelbarrow wasn't very
big."

"I've got a shortcake piano, but none of my family can play on it," he
said, reflectively. "Suppose you eat that."

"All right," said Dorothy; "I don't mind. Anything to be accomodating."

[Illustration]

So Mr. Over led her into the house, where she ate the piano, which was
of an excellent flavor.

"Is there anything to drink here?" she asked.

"Yes; I've a milk pump and a water pump; which will you have?" he asked.

"I guess I'll try 'em both," said Dorothy.

So Mr. Over called to his wife, who brought into the yard a pail made of
some kind of baked dough, and Dorothy pumped the pail full of cool,
sweet milk and drank it eagerly.

The wife of Pop Over was several shades darker than her husband.

"Aren't you overdone?" the little girl asked her.

"No indeed," answered the woman. "I'm neither overdone nor done over;
I'm just Mrs. Over, and I'm the President of the Bunbury Breakfast
Band."

Dorothy thanked them for their hospitality and went away. At the gate
Mr. Cinnamon Bunn met her and said he would show her around the town.

"We have some very interesting inhabitants," he remarked, walking
stiffly beside her on his stick-cinnamon legs; "and all of us who are in
good health are well bred. If you are no longer hungry we will call upon
a few of the most important citizens."

Toto and Billina followed behind them, behaving very well, and a little
way down the street they came to a handsome residence where Aunt Sally
Lunn lived. The old lady was glad to meet the little girl and gave her a
slice of white bread and butter which had been used as a door-mat. It
was almost fresh and tasted better than anything Dorothy had eaten in
the town.

"Where do you get the butter?" she inquired.

"We dig it out of the ground, which, as you may have observed, is all
flour and meal," replied Mr. Bunn. "There is a butter mine just at the
opposite side of the village. The trees which you see here are all
doughleanders and doughderas, and in the season we get quite a crop of
dough-nuts off them."

"I should think the flour would blow around and get into your eyes,"
said Dorothy.

"No," said he; "we are bothered with cracker dust sometimes, but never
with flour."

Then he took her to see Johnny Cake, a cheerful old gentleman who lived
near by.

"I suppose you've heard of me," said old Johnny, with an air of pride.
"I'm a great favorite all over the world."

"Aren't you rather yellow?" asked Dorothy, looking at him critically.

"Maybe, child. But don't think I'm bilious, for I was never in better
health in my life," replied the old gentleman. "If anything ailed me,
I'd willingly acknowledge the corn."

"Johnny's a trifle stale," said Mr. Bunn, as they went away; "but he's a
good mixer and never gets cross-grained. I will now take you to call
upon some of my own relatives."

They visited the Sugar Bunns, the Currant Bunns and the Spanish Bunns,
the latter having a decidedly foreign appearance. Then they saw the
French Rolls, who were very polite to them, and made a brief call upon
the Parker H. Rolls, who seemed a bit proud and overbearing.

"But they're not as stuck up as the Frosted Jumbles," declared Mr. Bunn,
"who are people I really can't abide. I don't like to be suspicious or
talk scandal, but sometimes I think the Jumbles have too much baking
powder in them."

Just then a dreadful scream was heard, and Dorothy turned hastily around
to find a scene of great excitement a little way down the street. The
people were crowding around Toto and throwing at him everything they
could find at hand. They pelted the little dog with hard-tack, crackers,
and even articles of furniture which were hard baked and heavy enough
for missiles.

Toto howled a little as the assortment of bake stuff struck him; but he
stood still, with head bowed and tail between his legs, until Dorothy
ran up and inquired what the matter was.

"Matter!" cried a rye loafer, indignantly, "why the horrid beast has
eaten three of our dear Crumpets, and is now devouring a Salt-rising
Biscuit!"

"Oh, Toto! How could you?" exclaimed Dorothy, much distressed.

Toto's mouth was full of his salt-rising victim; so he only whined and
wagged his tail. But Billina, who had flown to the top of a cracker
house to be in a safe place, called out:

"Don't blame him, Dorothy; the Crumpets dared him to do it."

"Yes, and you pecked out the eyes of a Raisin Bunn--one of our best
citizens!" shouted a bread pudding, shaking its fist at the Yellow Hen.

"What's that! What's that?" wailed Mr. Cinnamon Bunn, who had now joined
them. "Oh, what a misfortune--what a terrible misfortune!"

"See here," said Dorothy, determined to defend her pets, "I think we've
treated you all pretty well, seeing you're eatables, an' reg'lar food
for us. I've been kind to you, and eaten your old wheelbarrows and
pianos and rubbish, an' not said a word. But Toto and Billina can't be
'spected to go hungry when the town's full of good things they like to
eat, 'cause they can't understand your stingy ways as I do."

"You must leave here at once!" said Mr. Bunn, sternly.

"Suppose we won't go?" asked Dorothy, who was now much provoked.

"Then," said he, "we will put you into the great ovens where we are
made, and bake you."

Dorothy gazed around and saw threatening looks upon the faces of all.
She had not noticed any ovens in the town, but they might be there,
nevertheless, for some of the inhabitants seemed very fresh. So she
decided to go, and calling to Toto and Billina to follow her she marched
up the street with as much dignity as possible, considering that she was
followed by the hoots and cries of the buns and biscuits and other bake
stuff.

[Illustration]




_How_ OZMA LOOKED INTO THE MAGIC PICTURE

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

[Illustration]


Princess Ozma was a very busy little ruler, for she looked carefully
after the comfort and welfare of her people and tried to make them
happy. If any quarrels arose she decided them justly; if any one needed
counsel or advice she was ready and willing to listen to them.

For a day or two after Dorothy and her companions had started on their
trip, Ozma was occupied with the affairs of her kingdom. Then she began
to think of some manner of occupation for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em that
would be light and easy and yet give the old people something to do.

She soon decided to make Uncle Henry the Keeper of the Jewels, for some
one really was needed to count and look after the bins and barrels of
emeralds, diamonds, rubies and other precious stones that were in the
Royal Storehouses. That would keep Uncle Henry busy enough, but it was
harder to find something for Aunt Em to do. The palace was full of
servants, so there was no detail of housework that Aunt Em could look
after.

While Ozma sat in her pretty room engaged in thought she happened to
glance at her Magic Picture.

This was one of the most important treasures in all the Land of Oz. It
was a large picture, set in a beautiful gold frame, and it hung in a
prominent place upon a wall of Ozma's private room.

Usually this picture seemed merely a country scene, but whenever Ozma
looked at it and wished to know what any of her friends or acquaintances
were doing, the magic of this wonderful picture was straightway
disclosed. For the country scene would gradually fade away and in its
place would appear the likeness of the person or persons Ozma might wish
to see, surrounded by the actual scenes in which they were then placed.
In this way the Princess could view any part of the world she wished,
and watch the actions of any one in whom she was interested.

Ozma had often seen Dorothy in her Kansas home by this means, and now,
having a little leisure, she expressed a desire to see her little friend
again. It was while the travelers were at Fuddlecumjig, and Ozma laughed
merrily as she watched in the picture her friends trying to match the
pieces of Grandmother Gnit.

"They seem happy and are doubtless having a good time," the girl Ruler
said to herself; and then she began to think of the many adventures she
herself had encountered with Dorothy.

The images of her friends now faded from the Magic Picture and the old
landscape slowly reappeared.

Ozma was thinking of the time when with Dorothy and her army she marched
to the Nome King's underground cavern, beyond the Land of Ev, and forced
the old monarch to liberate his captives, who belonged to the Royal
Family of Ev. That was the time when the Scarecrow nearly frightened the
Nome King into fits by throwing one of Billina's eggs at him, and
Dorothy had captured King Roquat's Magic Belt and brought it away with
her to the Land of Oz.

The pretty Princess smiled at the recollection of this adventure, and
then she wondered what had become of the Nome King since then. Merely
because she was curious and had nothing better to do, Ozma glanced at
the Magic Picture and wished to see in it the King of the Nomes.

Roquat the Red went every day into his tunnel to see how the work was
getting along and to hurry his workmen as much as possible. He was there
now, and Ozma saw him plainly in the Magic Picture.

She saw the underground tunnel, reaching far underneath the Deadly
Desert which separated the Land of Oz from the mountains beneath which
the Nome King had his extensive caverns. She saw that the tunnel was
being made in the direction of the Emerald City, and knew at once it was
being dug so that the army of Nomes could march through it and attack
her own beautiful and peaceful country.

"I suppose King Roquat is planning revenge against us," she said,
musingly, "and thinks he can surprise us and make us his captives and
slaves. How sad it is that any one can have such wicked thoughts! But I
must not blame King Roquat too severely, for he is a Nome, and his
nature is not so gentle as my own."

Then she dismissed from her mind further thought of the tunnel, for that
time, and began to wonder if Aunt Em would not be happy as Royal Mender
of the Stockings of the Ruler of Oz. Ozma wore few holes in her
stockings; still, they sometimes needed mending. Aunt Em ought to be
able to do that very nicely.

Next day the Princess watched the tunnel again in her Magic Picture, and
every day afterward she devoted a few minutes to inspecting the work. It
was not especially interesting, but she felt that it was her duty.

Slowly but surely the big arched hole crept through the rocks underneath
the deadly desert, and day by day it drew nearer and nearer to the
Emerald City.




_How_ BUNNYBURY WELCOMED THE STRANGERS

CHAPTER NINETEEN

[Illustration]


Dorothy left Bunbury the same way she had entered it and when they were
in the forest again she said to Billina:

"I never thought that things good to eat could be so dis'gree'ble."

"Often I've eaten things that tasted good but were disagreeable
afterward," returned the Yellow Hen. "I think, Dorothy, if eatables are
going to act badly, it's better before than after you eat them."

"P'raps you're right," said the little girl, with a sigh. "But what
shall we do now?"

"Let us follow the path back to the signpost," suggested Billina. "That
will be better than getting lost again."

"Why, we're lost anyhow," declared Dorothy; "but I guess you're right
about going back to that signpost, Billina."

They returned along the path to the place where they had first found it,
and at once took "the other road" to Bunnybury. This road was a mere
narrow strip, worn hard and smooth but not wide enough for Dorothy's
feet to tread. Still it was a guide, and the walking through the forest
was not at all difficult.

Before long they reached a high wall of solid white marble, and the path
came to an end at this wall.

At first Dorothy thought there was no opening at all in the marble, but
on looking closely she discovered a small square door about on a level
with her head, and underneath this closed door was a bell-push. Near the
bell-push a sign was painted in neat letters upon the marble, and the
sign read:

    _No Admittance
    Except on Business_

This did not discourage Dorothy, however, and she rang the bell.

Pretty soon a bolt was cautiously withdrawn and the marble door swung
slowly open. Then she saw it was not really a door, but a window, for
several brass bars were placed across it, being set fast in the marble
and so close together that the little girl's fingers might barely go
between them. Back of the bars appeared the face of a white rabbit--a
very sober and sedate face--with an eye-glass held in his left eye and
attached to a cord in his button-hole.

"Well! what is it?" asked the rabbit, sharply.

"I'm Dorothy," said the girl, "and I'm lost, and--"

"State your business, please," interrupted the rabbit.

"My business," she replied, "is to find out where I am, and to--"

"No one is allowed in Bunnybury without an order or a letter of
introduction from either Ozma of Oz or Glinda the Good," announced the
rabbit; "so that that settles the matter," and he started to close the
window.

"Wait a minute!" cried Dorothy. "I've got a letter from Ozma."

"From the Ruler of Oz?" asked the rabbit, doubtingly.

"Of course. Ozma's my best friend, you know; and I'm a Princess myself,"
she announced, earnestly.

"Hum--ha! Let me see your letter," returned the rabbit, as if he still
doubted her.

So she hunted in her pocket and found the letter Ozma had given her.
Then she handed it through the bars to the rabbit, who took it in his
paws and opened it. He read it aloud in a pompous voice, as if to let
Dorothy and Billina see that he was educated and could read writing. The
letter was as follows:

"It will please me to have my subjects greet Princess Dorothy, the
bearer of this royal missive, with the same courtesy and consideration
they would extend to me."

"Ha--hum! It is signed 'Ozma of Oz,'" continued the rabbit, "and is
sealed with the Great Seal of the Emerald City. Well, well, well! How
strange! How remarkable!"

"What are you going to do about it?" inquired Dorothy, impatiently.

"We must obey the royal mandate," replied the rabbit. "We are subjects
of Ozma of Oz, and we live in her country. Also we are under the
protection of the great Sorceress Glinda the Good, who made us promise
to respect Ozma's commands."

"Then may I come in?" she asked.

"I'll open the door," said the rabbit. He shut the window and
disappeared, but a moment afterward a big door in the wall opened and
admitted Dorothy to a small room, which seemed to be a part of the wall
and built into it.

Here stood the rabbit she had been talking with, and now that she could
see all of him she gazed at the creature in surprise. He was a good
sized white rabbit with pink eyes, much like all other white rabbits.
But the astonishing thing about him was the manner in which he was
dressed. He wore a white satin jacket embroidered with gold, and having
diamond buttons. His vest was rose-colored satin, with tourmaline
buttons. His trousers were white, to correspond with the jacket, and
they were baggy at the knees--like those of a zouave--being tied with
knots of rose ribbons. His shoes were of white plush with diamond
buckles, and his stockings were rose silk.

The richness and even magnificence of the rabbit's clothing made Dorothy
stare at the little creature wonderingly. Toto and Billina had followed
her into the room and when he saw them the rabbit ran to a table and
sprang upon it nimbly. Then he looked at the three through his monocle
and said:

"These companions, Princess, cannot enter Bunnybury with you."

"Why not?" asked Dorothy.

"In the first place they would frighten our people, who dislike dogs
above all things on earth; and, secondly, the letter of the Royal Ozma
does not mention them."

"But they're my friends," persisted Dorothy, "and go wherever I go."

"Not this time," said the rabbit, decidedly. "You, yourself, Princess,
are a welcome visitor, since you come so highly recommended; but unless
you consent to leave the dog and the hen in this room I cannot permit
you to enter the town."

"Never mind us, Dorothy," said Billina. "Go inside and see what the
place is like. You can tell us about it afterward, and Toto and I will
rest comfortably here until you return."

This seemed the best thing to do, for Dorothy was curious to see how the
rabbit people lived and she was aware of the fact that her friends might
frighten the timid little creatures. She had not forgotten how Toto and
Billina had misbehaved in Bunbury, and perhaps the rabbit was wise to
insist on their staying outside the town.

"Very well," she said, "I'll go in alone. I s'pose you're the King of
this town, aren't you?"

"No," answered the rabbit, "I'm merely the Keeper of the Wicket, and a
person of little importance, although I try to do my duty. I must now
inform you, Princess, that before you enter our town you must consent to
reduce."

"Reduce what?" asked Dorothy.

"Your size. You must become the size of the rabbits, although you may
retain your own form."

"Wouldn't my clothes be too big for me?" she inquired.

"No; they will reduce when your body does."

"Can _you_ make me smaller?" asked the girl.

"Easily," returned the rabbit.

"And will you make me big again, when I'm ready to go away?"

"I will," said he.

"All right, then; I'm willing," she announced.

The rabbit jumped from the table and ran--or rather hopped--to the
further wall, where he opened a door so tiny that even Toto could
scarcely have crawled through it.

"Follow me," he said.

Now, almost any other little girl would have declared that she could not
get through so small a door; but Dorothy had already encountered so many
fairy adventures that she believed nothing was impossible in the Land of
Oz. So she quietly walked toward the door, and at every step she grew
smaller and smaller until, by the time the opening was reached, she
could pass through it with ease. Indeed, as she stood beside the rabbit,
who sat upon his hind legs and used his paws as hands, her head was just
about as high as his own.

Then the Keeper of the Wicket passed through and she followed, after
which the door swung shut and locked itself with a sharp click.

Dorothy now found herself in a city so strange and beautiful that she
gave a gasp of surprise. The high marble wall extended all around the
place and shut out all the rest of the world. And here were marble
houses of curious forms, most of them resembling overturned kettles but
with delicate slender spires and minarets running far up into the sky.
The streets were paved with white marble and in front of each house was
a lawn of rich green clover. Everything was as neat as wax, the green
and white contrasting prettily together.

But the rabbit people were, after all, the most amazing things Dorothy
saw. The streets were full of them, and their costumes were so splendid
that the rich dress of the Keeper of the Wicket was commonplace when
compared with the others. Silks and satins of delicate hues seemed
always used for material, and nearly every costume sparkled with
exquisite gems.

[Illustration]

But the lady rabbits outshone the gentlemen rabbits in splendor, and
the cut of their gowns was really wonderful. They wore bonnets, too,
with feathers and jewels in them, and some wheeled baby carriages in
which the girl could see wee bunnies. Some were lying asleep while
others lay sucking their paws and looking around them with big pink
eyes.

As Dorothy was no bigger in size than the grown-up rabbits she had a
chance to observe them closely before they noticed her presence. Then
they did not seem at all alarmed, although the little girl naturally
became the center of attraction and all regarded her with great
curiosity.

"Make way!" cried the Keeper of the Wicket, in a pompous voice; "make
way for Princess Dorothy, who comes from Ozma of Oz."

Hearing this announcement, the throng of rabbits gave place to them on
the walks, and as Dorothy passed along they all bowed their heads
respectfully.

Walking thus through several handsome streets they came to a square in
the center of the City. In this square were some pretty trees and a
statue in bronze of Glinda the Good, while beyond it were the portals of
the Royal Palace--an extensive and imposing building of white marble
covered with a filigree of frosted gold.




_How_ DOROTHY LUNCHED WITH A KING

CHAPTER TWENTY

[Illustration]


A line of rabbit soldiers was drawn up before the palace entrance, and
they wore green and gold uniforms with high shakos upon their heads and
held tiny spears in their hands. The Captain had a sword and a white
plume in his shako.

"Salute!" cried the Keeper of the Wicket. "Salute Princess Dorothy, who
comes from Ozma of Oz!"

"Salute!" yelled the Captain, and all the soldiers promptly saluted.

They now entered the great hall of the palace, where they met a gaily
dressed attendant, from whom the Keeper of the Wicket inquired if the
King were at leisure.

"I think so," was the reply. "I heard his Majesty blubbering and wailing
as usual only a few minutes ago. If he doesn't stop acting like a
cry-baby I'm going to resign my position here and go to work."

"What's the matter with your King?" asked Dorothy, surprised to hear the
rabbit attendant speak so disrespectfully of his monarch.

"Oh, he doesn't want to be King, that's all; and he simply _has_ to,"
was the reply.

"Come!" said the Keeper of the Wicket, sternly; "lead us to his Majesty;
and do not air our troubles before strangers, I beg of you."

"Why, if this girl is going to see the King, he'll air his own
troubles," returned the attendant.

"That is his royal privilege," declared the Keeper.

So the attendant led them into a room all draped with cloth-of-gold and
furnished with satin-covered gold furniture. There was a throne in this
room, set on a dais and having a big cushioned seat, and on this seat
reclined the Rabbit King. He was lying on his back, with his paws in the
air, and whining very like a puppy-dog.

"Your Majesty! your Majesty! Get up. Here's a visitor," called out the
attendant.

The King rolled over and looked at Dorothy with one watery pink eye.
Then he sat up and wiped his eyes carefully with a silk handkerchief and
put on his jeweled crown, which had fallen off.

"Excuse my grief, fair stranger," he said, in a sad voice. "You behold
in me the most miserable monarch in all the world. What time is it,
Blinkem?"

"One o'clock, your Majesty," replied the attendant to whom the question
was addressed.

"Serve luncheon at once!" commanded the King. "Luncheon for two--that's
for my visitor and me--and see that the human has some sort of food
she's accustomed to."

"Yes, your Majesty," answered the attendant, and went away.

"Tie my shoe, Bristle," said the King to the Keeper of the Wicket. "Ah,
me! how unhappy I am!"

"What seems to be worrying your Majesty?" asked Dorothy.

"Why, it's this king business, of course," he returned, while the Keeper
tied his shoe. "I didn't want to be King of Bunnybury at all, and the
rabbits all knew it. So they elected me--to save themselves from such a
dreadful fate, I suppose--and here I am, shut up in a palace, when I
might be free and happy."

"Seems to me," said Dorothy, "it's a great thing to be a King."

"Were you ever a King?" inquired the monarch.

"No," she answered, laughing.

"Then you know nothing about it," he said. "I haven't inquired who you
are, but it doesn't matter. While we're at luncheon, I'll tell you all
my troubles. They're a great deal more interesting than anything you can
say about yourself."

"Perhaps they are, to you," replied Dorothy.

"Luncheon is served!" cried Blinkem, throwing open the door, and in came
a dozen rabbits in livery, all bearing trays which they placed upon the
table, where they arranged the dishes in an orderly manner.

"Now clear out--all of you!" exclaimed the King. "Bristle, you may wait
outside, in case I want you."

When they had gone and the King was alone with Dorothy he came down from
his throne, tossed his crown into a corner and kicked his ermine robe
under the table.

"Sit down," he said, "and try to be happy. It's useless for me to try,
because I'm always wretched and miserable. But I'm hungry, and I hope
you are."

"I am," said Dorothy. "I've only eaten a wheelbarrow and a piano
to-day--oh, yes! and a slice of bread and butter that used to be a
door-mat."

"That sounds like a square meal," remarked the King, seating himself
opposite her; "but perhaps it wasn't a square piano. Eh?"

Dorothy laughed.

"You don't seem so very unhappy now," she said.

[Illustration]

"But I am," protested the King, fresh tears gathering in his eyes. "Even
my jokes are miserable. I'm wretched, woeful, afflicted, distressed and
dismal as an individual can be. Are you not sorry for me?"

"No," answered Dorothy, honestly, "I can't say I am. Seems to me that
for a rabbit you 're right in clover. This is the prettiest little city
I ever saw."

"Oh, the city is good enough," he admitted. "Glinda, the Good Sorceress,
made it for us because she was fond of rabbits. I don't mind the City so
much, although I wouldn't live here if I had my choice. It is being King
that has absolutely ruined my happiness."

"Why wouldn't you live here by choice?" she asked.

"Because it is all unnatural, my dear. Rabbits are out of place in such
luxury. When I was young I lived in a burrow in the forest. I was
surrounded by enemies and often had to run for my life. It was hard
getting enough to eat, at times, and when I found a bunch of clover I
had to listen and look for danger while I ate it. Wolves prowled around
the hole in which I lived and sometimes I didn't dare stir out for days
at a time. Oh, how happy and contented I was then! I was a real rabbit,
as nature made me--wild and free!--and I even enjoyed listening to the
startled throbbing of my own heart!"

"I've often thought," said Dorothy, who was busily eating, "that it
would be fun to be a rabbit."

"It _is_ fun--when you're the genuine article," agreed his Majesty. "But
look at me now! I live in a marble palace instead of a hole in the
ground. I have all I want to eat, without the joy of hunting for it.
Every day I must dress in fine clothes and wear that horrible crown till
it makes my head ache. Rabbits come to me with all sorts of troubles,
when my own troubles are the only ones I care about. When I walk out I
can't hop and run; I must strut on my rear legs and wear an ermine robe!
And the soldiers salute me and the band plays and the other rabbits
laugh and clap their paws and cry out: 'Hail to the King!' Now let me
ask you, as a friend and a young lady of good judgment: isn't all this
pomp and foolishness enough to make a decent rabbit miserable?"

"Once," said Dorothy, reflectively, "men were wild and unclothed and
lived in caves and hunted for food as wild beasts do. But they got
civ'lized, in time, and now they'd hate to go back to the old days."

"That is an entirely different case," replied the King. "None of you
Humans were civilized in one lifetime. It came to you by degrees. But I
have known the forest and the free life, and that is why I resent being
civilized all at once, against my will, and being made a King with a
crown and an ermine robe. Pah!"

"If you don't like it, why don't you resign?" she asked.

"Impossible!" wailed the Rabbit, wiping his eyes again with his
handkerchief. "There's a beastly law in this town that forbids it. When
one is elected a King there's no getting out of it."

"Who made the laws?" inquired Dorothy.

"The same Sorceress who made the town--Glinda the Good. She built the
wall, and fixed up the City, and gave us several valuable enchantments,
and made the laws. Then she invited all the pink-eyed white rabbits of
the forest to come here, after which she left us to our fate."

"What made you 'cept the invitation, and come here?" asked the child.

"I didn't know how dreadful city life was, and I'd no idea I would be
elected King," said he, sobbing bitterly. "And--and--now I'm It--with a
capital I--and can't escape!"

"I know Glinda," remarked Dorothy, eating for dessert a dish of
charlotte russe, "and when I see her again I'll ask her to put another
King in your place."

"Will you? Will you, indeed?" asked the King, joyfully.

"I will if you want me to," she replied.

"Hurroo--hurray!" shouted the King; and then he jumped up from the table
and danced wildly about the room, waving his napkin like a flag and
laughing with glee.

After a time he managed to control his delight and returned to the
table.

"When are you likely to see Glinda?" he inquired.

"Oh, p'raps in a few days," said Dorothy.

"And you won't forget to ask her?"

"Of course not."

"Princess," said the Rabbit King, earnestly, "you have relieved me of a
great unhappiness, and I am very grateful. Therefore I propose to
entertain you, since you are my guest and I am the King, as a slight
mark of my appreciation. Come with me to my reception hall."

He then summoned Bristle and said to him: "Assemble all the nobility in
the great reception hall, and also tell Blinkem that I want him
immediately."

The Keeper of the Wicket bowed and hurried away, and his Majesty turned
to Dorothy and continued: "We'll have time for a walk in the gardens
before the people get here."

The gardens were back of the palace and were filled with beautiful
flowers and fragrant shrubs, with many shade and fruit trees and marble
paved walks running in every direction. As they entered this place
Blinkem came running to the King, who gave him several orders in a low
voice. Then his Majesty rejoined Dorothy and led her through the
gardens, which she admired very much.

"What lovely clothes your Majesty wears!" she said, glancing at the rich
blue satin costume, embroidered with pearls, in which the King was
dressed.

"Yes," he returned, with an air of pride, "this is one of my favorite
suits; but I have a good many that are even more elaborate. We have
excellent tailors in Bunnybury, and Glinda supplies all the material. By
the way, you might ask the Sorceress, when you see her, to permit me to
keep my wardrobe."

"But if you go back to the forest you will not need clothes," she said.

"N--o!" he faltered; "that may be so. But I've dressed up so long that
I'm used to it, and I don't imagine I'd care to run around naked again.
So perhaps the Good Glinda will let me keep the costumes."

"I'll ask her," agreed Dorothy.

Then they left the gardens and went into a fine big reception hall,
where rich rugs were spread upon the tiled floors and the furniture was
exquisitely carved and studded with jewels. The King's chair was an
especially pretty piece of furniture, being in the shape of a silver
lily with one leaf bent over to form the seat. The silver was
everywhere thickly encrusted with diamonds and the seat was upholstered
in white satin.

"Oh, what a splendid chair!" cried Dorothy, clasping her hands
admiringly.

"Isn't it?" answered the King, proudly. "It is my favorite seat, and I
think it especially becoming to my complexion. While I think of it, I
wish you'd ask Glinda to let me keep this lily chair when I go away."

"It wouldn't look very well in a hole in the ground, would it?" she
suggested.

"Maybe not; but I'm used to sitting in it and I'd like to take it with
me," he answered. "But here come the ladies and gentlemen of the court;
so please sit beside me and be presented."

[Illustration]




_How_ THE KING CHANGED HIS MIND

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

[Illustration]


Just then a rabbit band of nearly fifty pieces marched in, playing upon
golden instruments and dressed in neat uniforms. Following the band came
the nobility of Bunnybury, all richly dressed and hopping along on their
rear legs. Both the ladies and the gentlemen wore white gloves upon
their paws, with their rings on the outside of the gloves, as this
seemed to be the fashion here. Some of the lady rabbits carried
lorgnettes, while many of the gentlemen rabbits wore monocles in their
left eyes.

The courtiers and their ladies paraded past the King, who introduced
Princess Dorothy to each couple in a very graceful manner. Then the
company seated themselves in chairs and on sofas and looked expectantly
at their monarch.

"It is our royal duty, as well as our royal pleasure," he said, "to
provide fitting entertainment for our distinguished guest. We will now
present the Royal Band of Whiskered Friskers."

As he spoke the musicians, who had arranged themselves in a corner,
struck up a dance melody while into the room pranced the Whiskered
Friskers. They were eight pretty rabbits dressed only in gauzy purple
skirts fastened around their waists with diamond bands. Their whiskers
were colored a rich purple, but otherwise they were pure white.

After bowing before the King and Dorothy the Friskers began their
pranks, and these were so comical that Dorothy laughed with real
enjoyment. They not only danced together, whirling and gyrating around
the room, but they leaped over one another, stood upon their heads and
hopped and skipped here and there so nimbly that it was hard work to
keep track of them. Finally they all made double somersaults and turned
handsprings out of the room.

The nobility enthusiastically applauded, and Dorothy applauded with
them.

"They're fine!" she said to the King.

"Yes, the Whiskered Friskers are really very clever," he replied. "I
shall hate to part with them when I go away, for they have often amused
me when I was very miserable. I wonder if you would ask Glinda--"

"No, it wouldn't do at all," declared Dorothy, positively. "There
wouldn't be room in your hole in the ground for so many rabbits,
'spec'ly when you get the lily chair and your clothes there. Don't think
of such a thing, your Majesty."

The King sighed. Then he stood up and announced to the company:

"We will now behold a military drill by my picked Bodyguard of Royal
Pikemen."

Now the band played a march and a company of rabbit soldiers came in.
They wore green and gold uniforms and marched very stiffly but in
perfect time. Their spears, or pikes, had slender shafts of polished
silver with golden heads, and during the drill they handled these
weapons with wonderful dexterity.

"I should think you'd feel pretty safe with such a fine Bodyguard,"
remarked Dorothy.

"I do," said the King. "They protect me from every harm. I suppose
Glinda wouldn't--"

"No," interrupted the girl; "I'm sure she wouldn't. It's the King's own
Bodyguard, and when you are no longer King you can't have 'em."

The King did not reply, but he looked rather sorrowful for a time.

When the soldiers had marched out he said to the company:

"The Royal Jugglers will now appear."

Dorothy had seen many jugglers in her lifetime, but never any so
interesting as these. There were six of them, dressed in black satin
embroidered with queer symbols in silver--a costume which contrasted
strongly with their snow-white fur.

First they pushed in a big red ball and three of the rabbit jugglers
stood upon its top and made it roll. Then two of them caught up a third
and tossed him into the air, all vanishing, until only the two were
left. Then one of these tossed the other upward and remained alone of
all his fellows. This last juggler now touched the red ball, which fell
apart, being hollow, and the five rabbits who had disappeared in the air
scrambled out of the hollow ball.

Next they all clung together and rolled swiftly upon the floor. When
they came to a stop only one fat rabbit juggler was seen, the others
seeming to be inside him. This one leaped lightly into the air and when
he came down he exploded and separated into the original six. Then four
of them rolled themselves into round balls and the other two tossed them
around and played ball with them.

These were but a few of the tricks the rabbit jugglers performed, and
they were so skillful that all the nobility and even the King applauded
as loudly as did Dorothy.

"I suppose there are no rabbit jugglers in all the world to compare with
these," remarked the King. "And since I may not have the Whiskered
Friskers or my Bodyguard, you might ask Glinda to let me take away just
two or three of these jugglers. Will you?"

"I'll ask her," replied Dorothy, doubtfully.

"Thank you," said the King; "thank you very much. And now you shall
listen to the Winsome Waggish Warblers, who have often cheered me in my
moments of anguish."

The Winsome Waggish Warblers proved to be a quartette of rabbit singers,
two gentlemen and two lady rabbits. The gentlemen Warblers wore
full-dress swallow-tailed suits of white satin, with pearls for buttons,
while the lady Warblers were gowned in white satin dresses with long
trails.

The first song they sang began in this way:

        "When a rabbit gets a habit
          Of living in a city
        And wearing clothes and furbelows
          And jewels rare and pretty,
        He scorns the Bun who has to run
          And burrow in the ground
        And pities those whose watchful foes
          Are man and gun and hound."

Dorothy looked at the King when she heard this song and noticed that he
seemed disturbed and ill at ease.

"I don't like that song," he said to the Warblers. "Give us something
jolly and rollicking."

So they sang to a joyous, tinkling melody as follows:

            "Bunnies gay
            Delight to play
        In their fairy town secure;
            Ev'ry frisker
            Flirts his whisker
        At a pink-eyed girl demure.
            Ev'ry maid
            In silk arrayed
        At her partner shyly glances,
            Paws are grasped,
            Waists are clasped
        As they whirl in giddy dances.
            Then together
            Through the heather
        'Neath the moonlight soft they stroll;
            Each is very
            Blithe and merry,
        Gamboling with laughter droll.
            Life is fun
            To ev'ry one
        Guarded by our magic charm
            For to dangers
            We are strangers,
        Safe from any thought of harm."

"You see," said Dorothy to the King, when the song ended, "the rabbits
all seem to like Bunnybury except you. And I guess you're the only one
that ever has cried or was unhappy and wanted to get back to your muddy
hole in the ground."

His Majesty seemed thoughtful, and while the servants passed around
glasses of nectar and plates of frosted cakes their King was silent and
a bit nervous.

[Illustration: HIS MAJESTY WAS THOUGHTFUL]

When the refreshments had been enjoyed by all and the servants had
retired Dorothy said:

"I must go now, for it's getting late and I'm lost. I've got to find the
Wizard and Aunt Em and Uncle Henry and all the rest sometime before
night comes, if I poss'bly can."

"Won't you stay with us?" asked the King. "You will be very welcome."

"No, thank you," she replied. "I must get back to my friends. And I want
to see Glinda just as soon as I can, you know."

So the King dismissed his court and said he would himself walk with
Dorothy to the gate. He did not weep nor groan any more, but his long
face was quite solemn and his big ears hung dejectedly on each side of
it. He still wore his crown and his ermine and walked with a handsome
gold-headed cane.

When they arrived at the room in the wall the little girl found Toto and
Billina waiting for her very patiently. They had been liberally fed by
some of the attendants and were in no hurry to leave such comfortable
quarters.

The Keeper of the Wicket was by this time back in his old place, but he
kept a safe distance from Toto. Dorothy bade good bye to the King as
they stood just inside the wall.

"You've been good to me," she said, "and I thank you ever so much. As
soon as poss'ble I'll see Glinda and ask her to put another King in your
place and send you back into the wild forest. And I'll ask her to let
you keep some of your clothes and the lily chair and one or two jugglers
to amuse you. I'm sure she will do it, 'cause she's so kind she doesn't
like any one to be unhappy."

"Ahem!" said the King, looking rather downcast. "I don't like to trouble
you with my misery; so you needn't see Glinda."

"Oh, yes I will," she replied. "It won't be any trouble at all."

"But, my dear," continued the King, in an embarrassed way, "I've been
thinking the subject over carefully, and I find there are a lot of
pleasant things here in Bunnybury that I would miss if I went away. So
perhaps I'd better stay."

Dorothy laughed. Then she looked grave.

"It won't do for you to be a King and a cry-baby at the same time," she
said. "You've been making all the other rabbits unhappy and discontented
with your howls about being so miserable. So I guess it's better to have
another King."

"Oh, no indeed!" exclaimed the King, earnestly. "If you won't say
anything to Glinda I'll promise to be merry and gay all the time, and
never cry or wail again."

"Honor bright?" she asked.

"On the royal word of a King I promise it!" he answered.

"All right," said Dorothy. "You'd be a reg'lar lunatic to want to leave
Bunnybury for a wild life in the forest, and I'm sure any rabbit outside
the city would be glad to take your place."

"Forget it, my dear; forget all my foolishness," pleaded the King,
earnestly. "Hereafter I'll try to enjoy myself and do my duty by my
subjects."

So then she left him and entered through the little door into the room
in the wall, where she grew gradually bigger and bigger until she had
resumed her natural size.

The Keeper of the Wicket let them out into the forest and told Dorothy
that she had been of great service to Bunnybury because she had brought
their dismal King to a realization of the pleasure of ruling so
beautiful a city.

"I shall start a petition to have your statue erected beside Glinda's in
the public square," said the Keeper. "I hope you will come again, some
day, and see it."

"Perhaps I shall," she replied.

Then, followed by Toto and Billina, she walked away from the high marble
wall and started back along the narrow path toward the sign-post.

[Illustration]




_How_ THE WIZARD FOUND DOROTHY

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

[Illustration]


When they came to the signpost, there, to their joy, were the tents of
the Wizard pitched beside the path and the kettle bubbling merrily over
a fire. The Shaggy Man and Omby Amby were gathering firewood while Uncle
Henry and Aunt Em sat in their camp chairs talking with the Wizard.

They all ran forward to greet Dorothy, as she approached, and Aunt Em
exclaimed: "Goodness gracious, child! Where have you been?"

"You've played hookey the whole day," added the Shaggy Man,
reproachfully.

"Well, you see, I've been lost," explained the little girl, "and I've
tried awful hard to find the way back to you, but just couldn't do it."

"Did you wander in the forest all day?" asked Uncle Henry.

"You must be a'most starved!" said Aunt Em.

"No," said Dorothy, "I'm not hungry. I had a wheelbarrow and a piano for
breakfast, and lunched with a King."

"Ah!" exclaimed the Wizard, nodding with a bright smile. "So you've been
having adventures again."

"She's stark crazy!" cried Aunt Em. "Whoever heard of eating a
wheelbarrow?"

"It wasn't very big," said Dorothy; "and it had a zuzu wheel."

"And I ate the crumbs," added Billina, soberly.

"Sit down and tell us about it," begged the Wizard. "We've hunted for
you all day, and at last I noticed your footsteps in this path--and the
tracks of Billina. We found the path by accident, and seeing it only led
to two places I decided you were at either one or the other of those
places. So we made camp and waited for you to return. And now, Dorothy,
tell us where you have been--to Bunbury or to Bunnybury?"

"Why, I've been to both," she replied; "but first I went to Utensia,
which isn't on any path at all."

She then sat down and related the day's adventures, and you may be sure
Aunt Em and Uncle Henry were much astonished at the story.

"But after seeing the Cuttenclips and the Fuddles," remarked her uncle,
"we ought not to wonder at anything in this strange country."

"Seems like the only common and ordinary folks here are ourselves,"
rejoined Aunt Em, diffidently.

"Now that we're together again, and one reunited party," observed the
Shaggy Man, "what are we to do next?"

"Have some supper and a night's rest," answered the Wizard promptly,
"and then proceed upon our journey."

"Where to?" asked the Captain General.

"We haven't visited the Rigmaroles or the Flutterbudgets yet," said
Dorothy. "I'd like to see them--wouldn't you?"

"They don't sound very interesting," objected Aunt Em. "But perhaps they
are."

"And then," continued the little Wizard, "we will call upon the Tin
Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead and our old friend the Scarecrow, on our
way home."

"That will be nice!" cried Dorothy, eagerly.

"Can't say _they_ sound very interesting, either," remarked Aunt Em.

"Why, they're the best friends I have!" asserted the little girl, "and
you're sure to like them, Aunt Em, 'cause _ever_'body likes them."

By this time twilight was approaching, so they ate the fine supper
which the Wizard magically produced from the kettle and then went to bed
in the cosy tents.

They were all up bright and early next morning, but Dorothy didn't
venture to wander from the camp again for fear of more accidents.

"Do you know where there's a road?" she asked the little man.

"No, my dear," replied the Wizard; "but I'll find one."

After breakfast he waved his hand toward the tents and they became
handkerchiefs again, which were at once returned to the pockets of their
owners. Then they all climbed into the red wagon and the Sawhorse
inquired:

"Which way?"

"Never mind which way," replied the Wizard. "Just go as you please and
you're sure to be right. I've enchanted the wheels of the wagon, and
they will roll in the right direction, never fear."

As the Sawhorse started away through the trees Dorothy said:

"If we had one of those new-fashioned airships we could float away over
the top of the forest, and look down and find just the places we want.

"Airship? Pah!" retorted the little man, scornfully. "I hate those
things, Dorothy, although they are nothing new to either you or me. I
was a balloonist for many years, and once my balloon carried me to the
Land of Oz, and once to the Vegetable Kingdom. And once Ozma had a Gump
that flew all over this kingdom and had sense enough to go where it was
told to--which airships won't do. The house which the cyclone brought to
Oz all the way from Kansas, with you and Toto in it--was a real airship
at the time; so you see we've had plenty of experience flying with the
birds."

"Airships are not so bad, after all," declared Dorothy. "Some day
they'll fly all over the world, and perhaps bring people even to the
Land of Oz."

"I must speak to Ozma about that," said the Wizard, with a slight frown.
"It wouldn't do at all, you know, for the Emerald City to become a
way-station on an airship line."

"No," said Dorothy, "I don't s'pose it would. But what can we do to
prevent it?"

"I'm working out a magic recipe to fuddle men's brains, so they'll never
make an airship that will go where they want it to go," the Wizard
confided to her. "That won't keep the things from flying, now and then,
but it'll keep them from flying to the Land of Oz."

Just then the Sawhorse drew the wagon out of the forest and a beautiful
landscape lay spread before the travelers' eyes. Moreover, right before
them was a good road that wound away through the hills and valleys.

"Now," said the Wizard, with evident delight, "we are on the right
track again, and there is nothing more to worry about."

[Illustration]

"It's a foolish thing to take chances in a strange country," observed
the Shaggy Man. "Had we kept to the roads we never would have been lost.
Roads always leads to some place, else they wouldn't be roads."

"This road," added the Wizard, "leads to Rigmarole Town. I'm sure of
that because I enchanted the wagon wheels."

Sure enough, after riding along the road for an hour or two they entered
a pretty valley where a village was nestled among the hills. The houses
were Munchkin shaped, for they were all domes, with windows wider than
they were high, and pretty balconies over the front doors.

Aunt Em was greatly relieved to find this town "neither paper nor
patch-work," and the only surprising thing about it was that it was so
far distant from all other towns.

As the Sawhorse drew the wagon into the main street the travelers
noticed that the place was filled with people, standing in groups and
seeming to be engaged in earnest conversation. So occupied with
themselves were the inhabitants that they scarcely noticed the strangers
at all. So the Wizard stopped a boy and asked:

"Is this Rigmarole Town?"

"Sir," replied the boy, "if you have traveled very much you will have
noticed that every town differs from every other town in one way or
another and so by observing the methods of the people and the way they
live as well as the style of their dwelling places it ought not to be a
difficult thing to make up your mind without the trouble of asking
questions whether the town bears the appearance of the one you intended
to visit or whether perhaps having taken a different road from the one
you should have taken you have made an error in your way and arrived at
some point where--"

[Illustration: SO AND SO, AND SO AND SO, OH YES, I DON'T KNOW IT MIGHT
BE SO I CALCULATE BUT I DON'T KNOW, INTRE MINTRY CUTEYCORN APPLE SEEDS
AND FLY AWAY JACK. SIX SIXES ARE NOT SIXTY-SIX? AND WE STILL HOLD TO
FOLDEROL DE DOODLE ALL DAY, IF I HAD A DONKEY THAT WOULDN'T GO I'D BUY A
FIDDLE FOR FIFTY CENTS AND RATTLE HIS BONES OVER THE STONES IT'S ONLY A
BEGGAR WHOM NOBODY OWNS, LISTEN??]

"Land sakes!" cried Aunt Em, impatiently; "what's all this rigmarole
about?"

"That's it!" said the Wizard, laughing merrily. "It's a rigmarole
because the boy is a Rigmarole and we've come to Rigmarole Town."

"Do they all talk like that?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"He might have said 'yes' or 'no' and settled the question," observed
Uncle Henry.

"Not here," said Omby Amby. "I don't believe the Rigmaroles know what
'yes' or 'no' means."

While the boy had been talking several other people had approached the
wagon and listened intently to his speech. Then they began talking to
one another in long, deliberate speeches, where many words were used but
little was said. But when the strangers criticised them so frankly one
of the women, who had no one else to talk to, began an address to them,
saying:

"It is the easiest thing in the world for a person to say 'yes' or 'no'
when a question that is asked for the purpose of gaining information or
satisfying the curiosity of the one who has given expression to the
inquiry has attracted the attention of an individual who may be
competent either from personal experience or the experience of others to
answer it with more or less correctness or at least an attempt to
satisfy the desire for information on the part of the one who has made
the inquiry by--"

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, interrupting the speech. "I've lost all
track of what you are saying."

"Don't let her begin over again, for goodness sake!" cried Aunt Em.

But the woman did not begin again. She did not even stop talking, but
went right on as she had begun, the words flowing from her mouth in a
stream.

"I'm quite sure that if we waited long enough and listened carefully,
some of these people might be able to tell us something, in time," said
the Wizard.

"Don't let's wait," returned Dorothy. "I've heard of the Rigmaroles, and
wondered what they were like; but now I know, and I'm ready to move on."

"So am I," declared Uncle Henry; "we're wasting time here."

"Why, we're all ready to go," added the Shaggy Man, putting his fingers
to his ears to shut out the monotonous babble of those around the wagon.

So the Wizard spoke to the Sawhorse, who trotted nimbly through the
village and soon gained the open country on the other side of it.
Dorothy looked back, as they rode away, and noticed that the woman had
not yet finished her speech but was talking as glibly as ever, although
no one was near to hear her.

"If those people wrote books," Omby Amby remarked with a smile, "it
would take a whole library to say the cow jumped over the moon."

[Illustration]

"Perhaps some of 'em do write books," asserted the little Wizard. "I've
read a few rigmaroles that might have come from this very town."

"Some of the college lecturers and ministers are certainly related to
these people," observed the Shaggy Man; "and it seems to me the Land of
Oz is a little ahead of the United States in some of its laws. For
here, if one can't talk clearly, and straight to the point, they send
him to Rigmarole Town; while Uncle Sam lets him roam around wild and
free, to torture innocent people."

Dorothy was thoughtful. The Rigmaroles had made a strong impression upon
her. She decided that whenever she spoke, after this, she would use only
enough words to express what she wanted to say.

[Illustration]




_How_ THEY ENCOUNTERED THE FLUTTERBUDGETS

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

[Illustration]


They were soon among the pretty hills and valleys again, and the
Sawhorse sped up hill and down at a fast and easy pace, the roads being
hard and smooth. Mile after mile was speedily covered, and before the
ride had grown at all tiresome they sighted another village. The place
seemed even larger than Rigmarole Town, but was not so attractive in
appearance.

"This must be Flutterbudget Center," declared the Wizard. "You see, it's
no trouble at all to find places if you keep to the right road."

"What are the Flutterbudgets like?" inquired Dorothy.

"I do not know, my dear. But Ozma has given them a town all their own,
and I've heard that whenever one of the people becomes a Flutterbudget
he is sent to this place to live."

"That is true," Omby Amby added; "Flutterbudget Center and Rigmarole
Town are called 'the Defensive Settlements of Oz.'"

The village they now approached was not built in a valley, but on top of
a hill, and the road they followed wound around the hill like a
corkscrew, ascending the hill easily until it came to the town.

"Look out!" screamed a voice. "Look out, or you'll run over my child!"

They gazed around and saw a woman standing upon the sidewalk nervously
wringing her hands as she gazed at them appealingly.

"Where is your child?" asked the Sawhorse.

"In the house," said the woman, bursting into tears; "but if it should
happen to be in the road, and you ran over it, those great wheels would
crush my darling to jelly. Oh, dear! oh dear! Think of my darling child
being crushed to jelly by those great wheels!"

"Gid-dap!" said the Wizard, sharply, and the Sawhorse started on.

They had not gone far before a man ran out of a house shouting wildly:
"Help! Help!"

The Sawhorse stopped short and the Wizard and Uncle Henry and the Shaggy
Man and Omby Amby jumped out of the wagon and ran to the poor man's
assistance. Dorothy followed them as quickly as she could.

"What's the matter?" asked the Wizard.

"Help! help!" screamed the man; "my wife has cut her finger off and
she's bleeding to death!"

Then he turned and rushed back to the house, and all the party went with
him. They found a woman in the front dooryard moaning and groaning as if
in great pain.

"Be brave, madam!" said the Wizard, consolingly. "You won't die just
because you have cut off a finger, you may be sure."

"But I haven't cut off a finger!" she sobbed.

[Illustration: "BUT I HAVEN'T CUT OFF A FINGER," SHE SOBBED.]

"Then what _has_ happened?" asked Dorothy.

"I--I pricked my finger with a needle while I was sewing, and--and the
blood came!" she replied. "And now I'll have blood-poisoning, and the
doctors will cut off my finger, and that will give me a fever and I
shall die!"

"Pshaw!" said Dorothy; "I've pricked my finger many a time, and nothing
happened."

"Really?" asked the woman, brightening and wiping her eyes upon her
apron.

"Why, it's nothing at all," declared the girl. "You're more scared than
hurt."

"Ah, that's because she's a Flutterbudget," said the Wizard, nodding
wisely. "I think I know now what these people are like."

"So do I," announced Dorothy.

"Oh, boo-hoo-hoo!" sobbed the woman, giving way to a fresh burst of
grief.

"What's wrong now?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"Oh, suppose I had pricked my foot!" she wailed. "Then the doctors would
have cut my foot off, and I'd be lamed for life!"

"Surely, ma'am," replied the Wizard, "and if you'd pricked your nose
they might cut your head off. But you see you didn't."

"But I might have!" she exclaimed, and began to cry again. So they left
her and drove away in their wagon. And her husband came out and began
calling "Help!" as he had before; but no one seemed to pay any attention
to him.

As the travelers turned into another street they found a man walking
excitedly up and down the pavement. He appeared to be in a very nervous
condition and the Wizard stopped him to ask:

"Is anything wrong, sir?"

"Everything is wrong," answered the man, dismally. "I can't sleep."

"Why not?" inquired Omby Amby.

"If I go to sleep I'll have to shut my eyes," he explained; "and if I
shut my eyes they may grow together, and then I'd be blind for life!"

"Did you ever hear of any one's eyes growing together?" asked Dorothy.

"No," said the man, "I never did. But it would be a dreadful thing,
wouldn't it? And the thought of it makes me so nervous I'm afraid to go
to sleep."

"There's no help for this case," declared the Wizard; and they went on.

At the next street corner a woman rushed up to them crying:

"Save my baby! Oh, good, kind people, save my baby!"

"Is it in danger?" asked Dorothy, noticing that the child was clasped in
her arms and seemed sleeping peacefully.

"Yes, indeed," said the woman, nervously. "If I should go into the house
and throw my child out of the window, it would roll way down to the
bottom of the hill; and then if there were a lot of tigers and bears
down there, they would tear my darling babe to pieces and eat it up!"

"Are there any tigers and bears in this neighborhood?" the Wizard asked.

"I've never heard of any," admitted the woman; "but if there were--"

"Have you any idea of throwing your baby out of the window?" questioned
the little man.

"None at all," she said; "but if--"

"All your troubles are due to those 'ifs'," declared the Wizard. "If you
were not a Flutterbudget you wouldn't worry."

"There's another 'if'," replied the woman. "Are you a Flutterbudget,
too?"

"I will be, if I stay here long," exclaimed the Wizard, nervously.

"Another 'if'!" cried the woman.

But the Wizard did not stop to argue with her. He made the Sawhorse
canter all the way down the hill, and only breathed easily when they
were miles away from the village.

After they had ridden in silence for a while Dorothy turned to the
little man and asked:

"Do 'ifs' really make Flutterbudgets?"

"I think the 'ifs' help," he answered seriously. "Foolish fears, and
worries over nothing, with a mixture of nerves and ifs, will soon make a
Flutterbudget of any one."

Then there was another long silence, for all the travelers were thinking
over this statement, and nearly all decided it must be true.

The country they were now passing through was everywhere tinted purple,
the prevailing color of the Gillikin Country; but as the Sawhorse
ascended a hill they found that upon the other side everything was of a
rich yellow hue.

"Aha!" cried the Captain General; "here is the Country of the Winkies.
We are just crossing the boundary line."

"Then we may be able to lunch with the Tin Woodman," announced the
Wizard, joyfully.

"Must we lunch on tin?" asked Aunt Em.

"Oh, no;" replied Dorothy. "Nick Chopper knows how to feed meat people,
and he will give us plenty of good things to eat, never fear. I've been
to his castle before."

"Is Nick Chopper the Tin Woodman's name?" asked Uncle Henry.

"Yes; that's one of his names," answered the little girl; "and another
of his names is 'Emp'ror of the Winkies.' He's the King of this country,
you know, but Ozma rules over all the countries of Oz."

"Does the Tin Woodman keep any Flutterbudgets or Rigmaroles at his
castle?" inquired Aunt Em, uneasily.

"No, indeed," said Dorothy, positively. "He lives in a new tin castle,
all full of lovely things."

"I should think it would rust," said Uncle Henry.

"He has thousands of Winkies to keep it polished for him," explained the
Wizard. "His people love to do anything in their power for their beloved
Emperor, so there isn't a particle of rust on all the big castle."

"I suppose they polish their Emperor, too," said Aunt Em.

"Why, some time ago he had himself nickel-plated," the Wizard answered;
"so he only needs rubbing up once in a while. He's the brightest man in
all the world, is dear Nick Chopper; and the kindest-hearted."

"I helped find him," said Dorothy, reflectively. "Once the Scarecrow and
I found the Tin Woodman in the woods, and he was just rusted still, that
time, an' no mistake. But we oiled his joints, an' got 'em good and
slippery, and after that he went with us to visit the Wizard at the
Em'rald City."

"Was that the time the Wizard scared you?" asked Aunt Em.

"He didn't treat us well, at first," acknowledged Dorothy; "for he made
us go away and destroy the Wicked Witch. But after we found out he was
only a humbug wizard we were not afraid of him."

The Wizard sighed and looked a little ashamed.

"When we try to deceive people we always make mistakes," he said. "But
I'm getting to be a real wizard now, and Glinda the Good's magic, that I
am trying to practice, can never harm any one."

"You were always a good man," declared Dorothy, "even when you were a
bad wizard."

"He's a good wizard now," asserted Aunt Em, looking at the little man
admiringly. "The way he made those tents grow out of handkerchiefs was
just wonderful! And didn't he enchant the wagon wheels so they'd find
the road?"

"All the people of Oz," said the Captain General, "are very proud of
their Wizard. He once made some soap-bubbles that astonished the world."

[Illustration]

The Wizard blushed at this praise, yet it pleased him. He no longer
looked sad, but seemed to have recovered his usual good humor.

The country through which they now rode was thickly dotted with
farmhouses, and yellow grain waved in all the fields. Many of the
Winkies could be seen working on their farms and the wild and unsettled
parts of Oz were by this time left far behind.

These Winkies appeared to be happy, light-hearted folk, and all removed
their caps and bowed low when the red wagon with its load of travelers
passed by.

It was not long before they saw something glittering in the sunshine far
ahead.

"See!" cried Dorothy; "that's the Tin Castle, Aunt Em!"

And the Sawhorse, knowing his passengers were eager to arrive, broke
into a swift trot that soon brought them to their destination.




_How_ THE TIN WOODMAN TOLD THE SAD NEWS

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

[Illustration]


The Tin Woodman received Princess Dorothy's party with much grace and
cordiality, yet the little girl decided that something must be worrying
her old friend, because he was not so merry as usual.

But at first she said nothing about this, for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em
were fairly bubbling over with admiration for the beautiful tin castle
and its polished tin owner. So her suspicion that something unpleasant
had happened was for a time forgotten.

"Where is the Scarecrow?" she asked, when they had all been ushered into
the big tin drawing-room of the castle, the Sawhorse being led around to
the tin stable in the rear.

"Why, our old friend has just moved into his new mansion," explained the
Tin Woodman. "It has been a long time in building, although my Winkies
and many other people from all parts of the country have been busily
working upon it. At last, however, it is completed, and the Scarecrow
took possession of his new home just two days ago."

"I hadn't heard that he wanted a home of his own," said Dorothy. "Why
doesn't he live with Ozma in the Emerald City? He used to, you know; and
I thought he was happy there."

"It seems," said the Tin Woodman, "that our dear Scarecrow cannot be
contented with city life, however beautiful his surroundings might be.
Originally he was a farmer, for he passed his early life in a cornfield,
where he was supposed to frighten away the crows."

"I know," said Dorothy, nodding. "I found him, and lifted him down from
his pole."

"So now, after a long residence in the Emerald City, his tastes have
turned to farm life again," continued the Tin Man. "He feels that he
cannot be happy without a farm of his own, so Ozma gave him some land
and every one helped him build his mansion, and now he is settled there
for good."

"Who designed his house?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"I believe it was Jack Pumpkinhead, who is also a farmer," was the
reply.

They were now invited to enter the tin dining room, where luncheon was
served.

Aunt Em found, to her satisfaction, that Dorothy's promise was more
than fulfilled; for, although the Tin Woodman had no appetite of his
own, he respected the appetites of his guests and saw that they were
bountifully fed.

They passed the afternoon in wandering through the beautiful gardens and
grounds of the palace. The walks were all paved with sheets of tin,
brightly polished, and there were tin fountains and tin statues here and
there among the trees. The flowers were mostly natural flowers and grew
in the regular way; but their host showed them one flower bed which was
his especial pride.

"You see, all common flowers fade and die in time," he explained, "and
so there are seasons when the pretty blooms are scarce. Therefore I
decided to make one tin flower bed all of tin flowers, and my workmen
have created them with rare skill. Here you see tin camelias, tin
marigolds, tin carnations, tin poppies and tin hollyhocks growing as
naturally as if they were real."

Indeed, they were a pretty sight, and glistened under the sunlight like
spun silver.

"Isn't this tin hollyhock going to seed?" asked the Wizard, bending over
the flowers.

"Why, I believe it is!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman, as if surprised. "I
hadn't noticed that before. But I shall plant the tin seeds and raise
another bed of tin hollyhocks."

In one corner of the gardens Nick Chopper had established a fish-pond,
in which they saw swimming and disporting themselves many pretty tin
fishes.

"Would they bite on hooks?" asked Aunt Em, curiously.

The Tin Woodman seemed hurt at this question.

"Madam," said he, "do you suppose I would allow anyone to catch my
beautiful fishes, even if they were foolish enough to bite on hooks? No,
indeed! Every created thing is safe from harm in my domain, and I would
as soon think of killing my little friend Dorothy as killing one of my
tin fishes."

"The Emperor is very kind-hearted, ma'am," explained the Wizard. "If a
fly happens to light upon his tin body he doesn't rudely brush it off,
as some people might do; he asks it politely to find some other resting
place."

"What does the fly do then?" enquired Aunt Em.

"Usually it begs his pardon and goes away," said the Wizard, gravely.
"Flies like to be treated politely as well as other creatures, and here
in Oz they understand what we say to them, and behave very nicely."

"Well," said Aunt Em, "the flies in Kansas, where I came from, don't
understand anything but a swat. You have to smash 'em to make 'em
behave; and it's the same way with 'skeeters. Do you have 'skeeters in
Oz?"

"We have some very large mosquitoes here, which sing as beautifully as
song birds," replied the Tin Woodman. "But they never bite or annoy our
people, because they are well fed and taken care of. The reason they
bite people in your country is because they are hungry--poor things!"

"Yes," agreed Aunt Em; "they're hungry, all right. An' they ain't very
particular who they feed on. I'm glad you've got the 'skeeters educated
in Oz."

That evening after dinner they were entertained by the Emperor's Tin
Cornet Band, which played for them several sweet melodies. Also the
Wizard did a few sleight-of-hand tricks to amuse the company; after
which they all retired to their cosy tin bedrooms and slept soundly
until morning.

After breakfast Dorothy said to the Tin Woodman:

"If you'll tell us which way to go we'll visit the Scarecrow on our way
home."

"I will go with you, and show you the way," replied the Emperor; "for I
must journey to-day to the Emerald City."

He looked so anxious, as he said this, that the little girl asked:

"There isn't anything wrong with Ozma, is there?"

He shook his tin head.

"Not yet," said he; "but I'm afraid the time has come when I must tell
you some very bad news, little friend."

"Oh, what is it?" cried Dorothy.

"Do you remember the Nome King?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"I remember him very well," she replied.

"The Nome King has not a kind heart," said the Emperor, sadly, "and he
has been harboring wicked thoughts of revenge, because we once defeated
him and liberated his slaves and you took away his Magic Belt. So he has
ordered his Nomes to dig a long tunnel underneath the deadly desert, so
that he may march his hosts right into the Emerald City. When he gets
there he intends to destroy our beautiful country."

Dorothy was much surprised to hear this.

"How did Ozma find out about the tunnel?" she asked.

"She saw it in her Magic Picture."

"Of course," said Dorothy; "I might have known that. And what is she
going to do?"

"I cannot tell," was the reply.

"Pooh!" cried the Yellow Hen. "We're not afraid of the Nomes. If we roll
a few of our eggs down the tunnel they'll run away back home as fast as
they can go."

"Why, that's true enough!" exclaimed Dorothy. "The Scarecrow once
conquered all the Nome King's army with some of Billina's eggs."

"But you do not understand all of the dreadful plot," continued the Tin
Woodman. "The Nome King is clever, and he knows his Nomes would run from
eggs; so he has bargained with many terrible creatures to help him.
These evil spirits are not afraid of eggs or anything else, and they
are very powerful. So the Nome King will send them through the tunnel
first, to conquer and destroy, and then the Nomes will follow after to
get their share of the plunder and slaves."

They were all startled to hear this, and every face wore a troubled
look.

"Is the tunnel all ready?" asked Dorothy.

"Ozma sent me word yesterday that the tunnel was all completed except
for a thin crust of earth at the end. When our enemies break through
this crust they will be in the gardens of the royal palace, in the heart
of the Emerald City. I offered to arm all my Winkies and march to Ozma's
assistance; but she said no."

"I wonder why?" asked Dorothy.

"She answered that all the inhabitants of Oz, gathered together, were
not powerful enough to fight and overcome the evil forces of the Nome
King. Therefore she refuses to fight at all."

"But they will capture and enslave us, and plunder and ruin all our
lovely land!" exclaimed the Wizard, greatly disturbed by this statement.

"I fear they will," said the Tin Woodman, sorrowfully. "And I also fear
that those who are not fairies, such as the Wizard, and Dorothy, and her
uncle and aunt, as well as Toto and Billina, will be speedily put to
death by the conquerors."

"What can be done?" asked Dorothy, shuddering a little at the prospect
of this awful fate.

"Nothing can be done!" gloomily replied the Emperor of the Winkies. "But
since Ozma refuses my army I will go myself to the Emerald City. The
least I may do is to perish beside my beloved Ruler."

[Illustration]




_How_ THE SCARECROW DISPLAYED HIS WISDOM

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

[Illustration: Probably The Wisest Man in All OZ.]


This amazing news had saddened every heart and all were now anxious to
return to the Emerald City and share Ozma's fate. So they started
without loss of time, and as the road led past the Scarecrow's new
mansion they determined to make a brief halt there and confer with him.

"The Scarecrow is probably the wisest man in all Oz," remarked the Tin
Woodman, when they had started upon their journey. "His brains are
plentiful and of excellent quality, and often he has told me things I
might never have thought of myself. I must say I rely a good deal upon
the Scarecrow's brains in this emergency."

The Tin Woodman rode on the front seat of the wagon, where Dorothy sat
between him and the Wizard.

"Has the Scarecrow heard of Ozma's trouble?" asked the Captain General.

"I do not know, sir," was the reply.

"When I was a private," said Omby Amby, "I was an excellent army, as I
fully proved in our war against the Nomes. But now there is not a single
private left in our army, since Ozma made me the Captain General, so
there is no one to fight and defend our lovely Ruler."

"True," said the Wizard. "The present army is composed only of officers,
and the business of an officer is to order his men to fight. Since there
are no men there can be no fighting."

"Poor Ozma!" whispered Dorothy, with tears in her sweet eyes. "It's
dreadful to think of all her lovely fairy country being destroyed. I
wonder if we couldn't manage to escape and get back to Kansas by means
of the Magic Belt? And we might take Ozma with us and all work hard to
get money for her, so she wouldn't be so _very_ lonely and unhappy about
the loss of her fairyland."

"Do you think there would be any work for _me_ in Kansas?" asked the Tin
Woodman.

"If you are hollow, they might use you in a canning factory," suggested
Uncle Henry. "But I can't see the use of your working for a living. You
never eat or sleep or need a new suit of clothes."

"I was not thinking of myself," replied the Emperor, with dignity. "I
merely wondered if I could not help to support Dorothy and Ozma."

As they indulged in these sad plans for the future they journeyed in
sight of the Scarecrow's new mansion, and even though filled with care
and worry over the impending fate of Oz, Dorothy could not help a
feeling of wonder at the sight she saw.

[Illustration]

The Scarecrow's new house was shaped like an immense ear of corn. The
rows of kernels were made of solid gold, and the green upon which the
ear stood upright was a mass of sparkling emeralds. Upon the very top of
the structure was perched a figure representing the Scarecrow himself,
and upon his extended arms, as well as upon his head, were several crows
carved out of ebony and having ruby eyes. You may imagine how big this
ear of corn was when I tell you that a single gold kernel formed a
window, swinging outward upon hinges, while a row of four kernels opened
to make the front entrance. Inside there were five stories, each story
being a single room.

The gardens around the mansion consisted of cornfields, and Dorothy
acknowledged that the place was in all respects a very appropriate home
for her good friend the Scarecrow.

"He would have been very happy here, I'm sure," she said, "if only the
Nome King had left us alone. But if Oz is destroyed of course this place
will be destroyed too."

"Yes," replied the Tin Woodman, "and also my beautiful tin castle, that
has been my joy and pride."

"Jack Pumpkinhead's house will go too," remarked the Wizard, "as well as
Professor Wogglebug's Athletic College, and Ozma's royal palace, and all
our other handsome buildings."

"Yes, Oz will indeed become a desert when the Nome King gets through
with it," sighed Omby Amby.

The Scarecrow came out to meet them and gave them all a hearty welcome.

"I hear you have decided always to live in the Land of Oz, after this,"
he said to Dorothy; "and that will delight my heart, for I have greatly
disliked our frequent partings. But why are you all so downcast?"

"Have you heard the news?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"No news to make me sad," replied the Scarecrow.

Then Nick Chopper told his friend of the Nome King's tunnel, and how the
evil creatures of the North had allied themselves with the underground
monarch for the purpose of conquering and destroying Oz. "Well," said
the Scarecrow, "it certainly looks bad for Ozma, and all of us. But I
believe it is wrong to worry over anything before it happens. It is
surely time enough to be sad when our country is despoiled and our
people made slaves. So let us not deprive ourselves of the few happy
hours remaining to us."

"Ah! that is real wisdom," declared the Shaggy Man, approvingly. "After
we become really unhappy we shall regret these few hours that are left
to us, unless we enjoy them to the utmost."

"Nevertheless," said the Scarecrow, "I shall go with you to the Emerald
City and offer Ozma my services."

"She says we can do nothing to oppose our enemies," announced the Tin
Woodman.

"And doubtless she is right, sir," answered the Scarecrow. "Still, she
will appreciate our sympathy, and it is the duty of Ozma's friends to
stand by her side when the final disaster occurs."

He then led them into his queer mansion and showed them the beautiful
rooms in all the five stories. The lower room was a grand reception
hall, with a hand-organ in one corner. This instrument the Scarecrow,
when alone, could turn to amuse himself, as he was very fond of music.
The walls were hung with white silk, upon which flocks of black crows
were embroidered in black diamonds. Some of the chairs were made in the
shape of big crows and upholstered with cushions of corn-colored silk.

The second story contained a fine banquet room, where the Scarecrow
might entertain his guests, and the three stories above that were
bed-chambers exquisitely furnished and decorated.

"From these rooms," said the Scarecrow, proudly, "one may obtain fine
views of the surrounding cornfields. The corn I grow is always husky,
and I call the ears my regiments, because they have so many kernels. Of
course I cannot ride my cobs, but I really don't care shucks about that.
Taken altogether, my farm will stack up with any in the neighborhood."

The visitors partook of some light refreshment and then hurried away to
resume the road to the Emerald City. The Scarecrow found a seat in the
wagon between Omby Amby and the Shaggy Man, and his weight did not add
much to the load because he was stuffed with straw.

"You will notice I have one oat-field on my property," he remarked, as
they drove away. "Oat-straw is, I have found, the best of all straws to
re-stuff myself with when my interior gets musty or out of shape."

"Are you able to re-stuff yourself without help?" asked Aunt Em. "I
should think that after the straw was taken out of you there wouldn't be
anything left but your clothes."

"You are almost correct, madam," he answered. "My servants do the
stuffing, under my direction. For my head, in which are my excellent
brains, is a bag tied at the bottom. My face is neatly painted upon one
side of the bag, as you may see. My head does not need re-stuffing, as
my body does, for all that it requires is to have the face touched up
with fresh paint occasionally."

[Illustration]

It was not far from the Scarecrow's mansion to the farm of Jack
Pumpkinhead, and when they arrived there both Uncle Henry and Aunt Em
were much impressed. The farm was one vast pumpkin field, and some of
the pumpkins were of enormous size. In one of them, which had been
neatly hollowed out, Jack himself lived, and he declared that it was a
very comfortable residence. The reason he grew so many pumpkins was in
order that he might change his head as often as it became wrinkled or
threatened to spoil.

The pumpkin-headed man welcomed his visitors joyfully and offered them
several delicious pumpkin pies to eat.

"I don't indulge in pumpkin pies myself, for two reasons," he said. "One
reason is that were I to eat pumpkins I would become a cannibal, and the
other reason is that I never eat, not being hollow inside."

"Very good reasons," agreed the Scarecrow.

They told Jack Pumpkinhead the dreadful news about the Nome King, and he
decided to go with them to the Emerald City and help comfort Ozma.

"I had expected to live here in ease and comfort for many centuries,"
said Jack, dolefully; "but of course if the Nome King destroys
everything in Oz I shall be destroyed too. Really, it seems too bad,
doesn't it?"

They were soon on their journey again, and so swiftly did the Sawhorse
draw the wagon over the smooth roads that before twilight fell that had
reached the royal palace in the Emerald City, and were at their
journey's end.




_How_ OZMA REFUSED TO FIGHT FOR HER KINGDOM

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

[Illustration]


Ozma was in her rose garden picking a bouquet when the party arrived,
and she greeted all her old and new friends as smilingly and sweetly as
ever.

Dorothy's eyes were full of tears as she kissed the lovely Ruler of Oz,
and she whispered to her:

"Oh, Ozma, Ozma! I'm _so_ sorry!"

Ozma seemed surprised.

"Sorry for what, Dorothy?" she asked.

"For all your trouble about the Nome King," was the reply.

Ozma laughed with genuine amusement.

"Why, that has not troubled me a bit, dear Princess," she replied. Then,
looking around at the sad faces of her friends, she added: "Have you all
been worrying about this tunnel?"

"We have!" they exclaimed in a chorus.

"Well, perhaps it is more serious than I imagined," admitted the fair
Ruler; "but I haven't given the matter much thought. After dinner we
will all meet together and talk it over."

So they went to their rooms and prepared for dinner, and Dorothy dressed
herself in her prettiest gown and put on her coronet, for she thought
that this might be the last time she would ever appear as a Princess of
Oz.

The Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead all sat at the
dinner table, although none of them was made so he could eat. Usually
they served to enliven the meal with their merry talk, but to-night all
seemed strangely silent and uneasy.

As soon as the dinner was finished Ozma led the company to her own
private room in which hung the Magic Picture. When they had seated
themselves the Scarecrow was the first to speak.

"Is the Nome King's tunnel finished, Ozma?" he asked.

"It was completed to-day," she replied. "They have built it right under
my palace grounds, and it ends in front of the Forbidden Fountain.
Nothing but a crust of earth remains to separate our enemies from us,
and when they march here they will easily break through this crust and
rush upon us."

"Who will assist the Nome King?" inquired the Scarecrow.

[Illustration]

"The Whimsies, the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms," she replied. "I
watched to-day in my Magic Picture the messengers whom the Nome King
sent to all these people to summon them to assemble in his great
caverns."

"Let us see what they are doing now," suggested the Tin Woodman.

So Ozma wished to see the Nome King's cavern, and at once the landscape
faded from the Magic Picture and was replaced by the scene then being
enacted in the jeweled cavern of King Roquat.

A wild and startling scene it was which the Oz people beheld.

Before the Nome King stood the Chief of the Whimsies and the Grand
Gallipoot of the Groweywogs, surrounded by their most skillful generals.
Very fierce and powerful they looked, so that even the Nome King and
General Guph, who stood beside his master, seemed a bit fearful in the
presence of their allies.

Now a still more formidable creature entered the cavern. It was the
First and Foremost of the Phanfasms and he proudly sat down in King
Roquat's own throne and demanded the right to lead his forces through
the tunnel in advance of all the others. The First and Foremost now
appeared to all eyes in his hairy skin and the bear's head. What his
real form was even Roquat did not know.

Through the arches leading into the vast series of caverns that lay
beyond the throne room of King Roquat, could be seen ranks upon ranks of
the invaders--thousands of Phanfasms, Growleywogs and Whimsies standing
in serried lines, while behind them were massed the thousands upon
thousands of General Guph's own army of Nomes.

"Listen!" whispered Ozma. "I think we can hear what they are saying."

So they kept still and listened.

"Is all ready?" demanded the First and Foremost, haughtily.

"The tunnel is finally completed," replied General Guph.

"How long will it take us to march to the Emerald City?" asked the Grand
Gallipoot of the Growleywogs.

"If we start at midnight," replied the Nome King, "we shall arrive at
the Emerald City by daybreak. Then, while all the Oz people are
sleeping, we will capture them and make them our slaves. After that we
will destroy the city itself and march through the Land of Oz, burning
and devastating as we go."

"Good!" cried the First and Foremost. "When we get through with Oz it
will be a desert wilderness. Ozma shall be my slave."

"She shall be _my_ slave!" shouted the Grand Gallipoot, angrily.

"We'll decide that by and by," said King Roquat, hastily. "Don't let us
quarrel now, friends. First let us conquer Oz, and then we will divide
the spoils of war in a satisfactory manner."

The First and Foremost smiled wickedly; but he only said:

"I and my Phanfasms go first, for nothing on earth can oppose our
power."

They all agreed to that, knowing the Phanfasms to be the mightiest of
the combined forces. King Roquat now invited them to attend a banquet he
had prepared, where they might occupy themselves in eating and drinking
until midnight arrived.

As they had now seen and heard all of the plot against them that they
cared to, Ozma allowed her Magic Picture to fade away. Then she turned
to her friends and said:

"Our enemies will be here sooner than I expected. What do you advise me
to do?"

"It is now too late to assemble our people," said the Tin Woodman,
despondently. "If you had allowed me to arm and drill my Winkies we
might have put up a good fight and destroyed many of our enemies before
we were conquered."

"The Munchkins are good fighters, too," said Omby Amby; "and so are the
Gillikins."

"But I do not wish to fight," declared Ozma, firmly. "No one has the
right to destroy any living creatures, however evil they may be, or to
hurt them or make them unhappy. I will not fight--even to save my
kingdom."

"The Nome King is not so particular," remarked the Scarecrow. "He
intends to destroy us all and ruin our beautiful country."

"Because the Nome King intends to do evil is no excuse for my doing the
same," replied Ozma.

"Self-preservation is the first law of nature," quoted the Shaggy Man.

"True," she said, readily. "I would like to discover a plan to save
ourselves without fighting."

That seemed a hopeless task to them, but realizing that Ozma was
determined not to fight, they tried to think of some means that might
promise escape.

"Couldn't we bribe our enemies, by giving them a lot of emeralds and
gold?" asked Jack Pumpkinhead.

"No, because they believe they are able to take everything we have,"
replied the Ruler.

"I have thought of something," said Dorothy.

"What is it, dear?" asked Ozma.

"Let us use the Magic Belt to wish all of us in Kansas. We will put some
emeralds in our pockets, and can sell them in Topeka for enough to pay
off the mortgage on Uncle Henry's farm. Then we can all live together
and be happy."

"A clever idea!" exclaimed the Scarecrow.

"Kansas is a very good country. I've been there," said the Shaggy Man.

"That seems to me an excellent plan," approved the Tin Woodman.

"No!" said Ozma, decidedly. "Never will I desert my people and leave
them to so cruel a fate. I will use the Magic Belt to send the rest of
you to Kansas, if you wish, but if my beloved country must be destroyed
and my people enslaved I will remain and share their fate."

"Quite right," asserted the Scarecrow, sighing. "I will remain with
you."

"And so will I," declared the Tin Woodman and the Shaggy Man and Jack
Pumpkinhead, in turn. Tiktok, the machine man, also said he intended to
stand by Ozma. "For," said he, "I should be of no use at all in Kansas."

"For my part," announced Dorothy, gravely, "if the Ruler of Oz must not
desert her people, a Princess of Oz has no right to run away, either.
I'm willing to become a slave with the rest of you; so all we can do
with the Magic Belt is to use it to send Uncle Henry and Aunt Em back to
Kansas."

"I've been a slave all my life," Aunt Em replied, with considerable
cheerfulness, "and so has Henry. I guess we won't go back to Kansas,
anyway. I'd rather take my chances with the rest of you."

Ozma smiled upon them all gratefully.

"There is no need to despair just yet," she said. "I'll get up early
to-morrow morning and be at the Forbidden Fountain when the fierce
warriors break through the crust of earth. I will speak to them
pleasantly and perhaps they won't be so very bad, after all."

"Why do they call it the Forbidden Fountain?" asked Dorothy,
thoughtfully.

"Don't you know, dear?" returned Ozma, surprised.

"No," said Dorothy. "Of course I've seen the fountain in the palace
grounds, ever since I first came to Oz; and I've read the sign which
says: 'All Persons are Forbidden to Drink at this Fountain.' But I never
knew _why_ they were forbidden. The water seems clear and sparkling and
it bubbles up in a golden basin all the time."

"That water," declared Ozma, gravely, "is the most dangerous thing in
all the Land of Oz. It is the Water of Oblivion."

"What does that mean?" asked Dorothy.

"Whoever drinks at the Forbidden Fountain at once forgets everything he
has ever known," Ozma asserted.

"It wouldn't be a bad way to forget our troubles," suggested Uncle
Henry.

"That is true; but you would forget everything else, and become as
ignorant as a baby," returned Ozma.

"Does it make one crazy?" asked Dorothy.

[Illustration]

"No; it only makes one forget," replied the girl Ruler. "It is said that
once--long, long ago--a wicked King ruled Oz, and made himself and all
his people very miserable and unhappy. So Glinda, the Good Sorceress,
placed this fountain here, and the King drank of its water and forgot
all his wickedness. His mind became innocent and vacant, and when he
learned the things of life again they were all good things. But the
people remembered how wicked their King had been, and were still afraid
of him. Therefore he made them all drink of the Water of Oblivion and
forget everything they had known, so that they became as simple and
innocent as their King. After that they all grew wise together, and
their wisdom was good, so that peace and happiness reigned in the land.
But for fear some one might drink of the water again, and in an instant
forget all he had learned, the King put that sign upon the fountain,
where it has remained for many centuries up to this very day."

They had all listened intently to Ozma's story, and when she finished
speaking there was a long period of silence while all thought upon the
curious magical power of the Water of Oblivion.

Finally the Scarecrow's painted face took on a broad smile that
stretched the cloth as far as it would go.

"How thankful I am," he said, "that I have such an excellent assortment
of brains!"

"I gave you the best brains I ever mixed," declared the Wizard, with an
air of pride.

"You did, indeed!" agreed the Scarecrow, "and they work so splendidly
that they have found a way to save Oz--to save us all!"

"I'm glad to hear that," said the Wizard. "We never needed saving more
than we do just now."

"Do you mean to say you can save us from those awful Phanfasms, and
Growleywogs and Whimsies?" asked Dorothy eagerly.

"I'm sure of it, my dear," asserted the Scarecrow, still smiling
genially.

"Tell us how!" cried the Tin Woodman.

[Illustration]

"Not now," said the Scarecrow. "You may all go to bed, and I advise you
to forget your worries just as completely as if you had drunk of the
Water of Oblivion in the Forbidden Fountain. I'm going to stay here and
tell my plan to Ozma alone, but if you will all be at the Forbidden
Fountain at daybreak, you'll see how easily we will save the kingdom
when our enemies break through the crust of earth and come from the
tunnel."

So they went away and left the Scarecrow and Ozma alone; but Dorothy
could not sleep a wink all night.

"He is only a Scarecrow," she said to herself, "and I'm not sure that
his mixed brains are as clever as he thinks they are."

But she knew that if the Scarecrow's plan failed they were all lost; so
she tried to have faith in him.

[Illustration]




_How_ THE FIERCE WARRIORS INVADED OZ

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

[Illustration]


The Nome King and his terrible allies sat at the banquet table until
midnight. There was much quarreling between the Growleywogs and
Phanfasms, and one of the wee-headed Whimsies got angry at General Guph
and choked him until he nearly stopped breathing. Yet no one was
seriously hurt, and the Nome King felt much relieved when the clock
struck twelve and they all sprang up and seized their weapons.

"Aha!" shouted the First and Foremost. "Now to conquer the Land of Oz!"

He marshaled his Phanfasms in battle array and at his word of command
they marched into the tunnel and began the long journey through it to
the Emerald City. The First and Foremost intended to take all the
treasures in Oz for himself; to kill all who could be killed and enslave
the rest; to destroy and lay waste the whole country, and afterward to
conquer and enslave the Nomes, the Growleywogs and the Whimsies. And he
knew his power was sufficient to enable him to do all these things
easily.

Next marched into the tunnel the army of gigantic Growleywogs, with
their Grand Gallipoot at their head. They were dreadful beings, indeed,
and longed to get to Oz that they might begin to pilfer and destroy. The
Grand Gallipoot was a little afraid of the First and Foremost, but had a
cunning plan to murder or destroy that powerful being and secure the
wealth of Oz for himself. Mighty little of the plunder would the Nome
King get, thought the Grand Gallipoot.

The Chief of the Whimsies now marched his false-headed forces into the
tunnel. In his wicked little head was a plot to destroy both the First
and Foremost and the Grand Gallipoot. He intended to let them conquer
Oz, since they insisted on going first; but he would afterward
treacherously destroy them, as well as King Roquat, and keep all the
slaves and treasure of Ozma's kingdom for himself.

After all his dangerous allies had marched into the tunnel the Nome King
and General Guph started to follow them, at the head of fifty thousand
Nomes, all fully armed.

"Guph," said the King, "those creatures ahead of us mean mischief. They
intend to get everything for themselves and leave us nothing."

"I know," replied the General; "but they are not as clever as they think
they are. When you get the Magic Belt you must at once wish the Whimsies
and Growleywogs and Phanfasms all back into their own countries--and the
Belt will surely take them there."

[Illustration]

"Good!" cried the King. "An excellent plan, Guph. I'll do it. While they
are conquering Oz I'll get the Magic Belt, and then only the Nomes will
remain to ravage the country."

So you see there was only one thing that all were agreed upon--that Oz
should be destroyed.

On, on, on the vast ranks of invaders marched, filling the tunnel from
side to side. With a steady tramp, tramp, they advanced, every step
taking them nearer to the beautiful Emerald City.

"Nothing can save the Land of Oz!" thought the First and Foremost,
scowling until his bear face was as black as the tunnel.

"The Emerald City is as good as destroyed already!" muttered the Grand
Gallipoot, shaking his war club fiercely.

"In a few hours Oz will be a desert!" said the Chief of the Whimsies,
with an evil laugh.

"My dear Guph," remarked the Nome King to his General, "at last my
vengeance upon Ozma of Oz and her people is about to be accomplished."

"You are right!" declared the General. "Ozma is surely lost."

And now the First and Foremost, who was in advance and nearing the
Emerald City, began to cough and to sneeze.

"This tunnel is terribly dusty," he growled, angrily. "I'll punish that
Nome King for not having it swept clean. My throat and eyes are getting
full of dust and I'm as thirsty as a fish!"

The Grand Gallipoot was coughing too, and his throat was parched and
dry.

"What a dusty place!" he cried. "I'll be glad when we reach Oz, where we
can get a drink."

"Who has any water?" asked the Whimsie Chief, gasping and choking. But
none of his followers carried a drop of water, so he hastened on to get
through the dusty tunnel to the Land of Oz.

"Where did all this dust come from?" demanded General Guph, trying hard
to swallow but finding his throat so dry he couldn't.

"I don't know," answered the Nome King. "I've been in the tunnel every
day while it was being built, but I never noticed any dust before."

"Let's hurry!" cried the General. "I'd give half the gold in Oz for a
drink of water."

The dust grew thicker and thicker, and the throats and eyes and noses of
the invaders were filled with it. But not one halted or turned back.
They hurried forward more fierce and vengeful than ever.




_How_ THEY DRANK AT THE FORBIDDEN FOUNTAIN

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

[Illustration]


The Scarecrow had no need to sleep; neither had the Tin Woodman or
Tiktok or Jack Pumpkinhead. So they all wandered out into the palace
grounds and stood beside the sparkling water of the Forbidden Fountain
until daybreak. During this time they indulged in occasional
conversation.

"Nothing could make me forget what I know," remarked the Scarecrow,
gazing into the fountain, "for I cannot drink the Water of Oblivion or
water of any kind. And I am glad that this is so, for I consider my
wisdom unexcelled."

"You are cer-tain-ly- ve-ry wise," agreed Tiktok. "For my part, I can
on-ly think by ma-chin-er-y, so I do not pre-tend to know as much as you
do."

"My tin brains are very bright, but that is all I claim for them," said
Nick Chopper, modestly. "Yet I do not aspire to being very wise, for I
have noticed that the happiest people are those who do not let their
brains oppress them."

"Mine never worry me," Jack Pumpkinhead acknowledged. "There are many
seeds of thought in my head, but they do not sprout easily. I am glad
that it is so, for if I occupied my days in thinking I should have no
time for anything else."

In this cheery mood they passed the hours until the first golden streaks
of dawn appeared in the sky. Then Ozma joined them, as fresh and lovely
as ever and robed in one of her prettiest gowns.

"Our enemies have not yet arrived," said the Scarecrow, after greeting
affectionately the sweet and girlish Ruler.

"They will soon be here," she said, "for I have just glanced at my Magic
Picture, and have seen them coughing and choking with the dust in the
tunnel."

"Oh, is there dust in the tunnel?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"Yes; Ozma placed it there by means of the Magic Belt," explained the
Scarecrow, with one of his broad smiles.

Then Dorothy came to them, Uncle Henry and Aunt Em following close after
her. The little girl's eyes were heavy because she had had a sleepless
and anxious night. Toto walked by her side, but the little dog's spirits
were very much subdued. Billina, who was always up by daybreak, was not
long in joining the group by the fountain.

The Wizard and the Shaggy Man next arrived, and soon after appeared Omby
Amby, dressed in his best uniform.

"There lies the tunnel," said Ozma, pointing to a part of the ground
just before the Forbidden Fountain, "and in a few moments the dreadful
invaders will break through the earth and swarm over the land. Let us
all stand on the other side of the Fountain and watch to see what
happens."

[Illustration]

At once they followed her suggestion and moved around the fountain of
the Water of Oblivion. There they stood silent and expectant until the
earth beyond gave way with a sudden crash and up leaped the powerful
form of the First and Foremost, followed by all his grim warriors.

As the leader sprang forward his gleaming eyes caught the play of the
fountain and he rushed toward it and drank eagerly of the sparkling
water. Many of the other Phanfasms drank, too, in order to clear their
dry and dusty throats. Then they stood around and looked at one another
with simple, wondering smiles.

The First and Foremost saw Ozma and her companions beyond the fountain,
but instead of making an effort to capture her he merely stared at her
in pleased admiration of her beauty--for he had forgotten where he was
and why he had come there.

But now the Grand Gallipoot arrived, rushing from the tunnel with a
hoarse cry of mingled rage and thirst. He too saw the fountain and
hastened to drink of its forbidden waters. The other Growleywogs were
not slow to follow suit, and even before they had finished drinking the
Chief of the Whimsies and his people came to push them away, while they
one and all cast off their false heads that they might slake their
thirst at the fountain.

When the Nome King and General Guph arrived they both made a dash to
drink, but the General was so mad with thirst that he knocked his King
over, and while Roquat lay sprawling upon the ground the General drank
heartily of the Water of Oblivion.

This rude act of his General made the Nome King so angry that for a
moment he forgot he was thirsty and rose to his feet to glare upon the
group of terrible warriors he had brought here to assist him. He saw
Ozma and her people, too, and yelled out:

"Why don't you capture them? Why don't you conquer Oz, you idiots? Why
do you stand there like a lot of dummies?"

But the great warriors had become like little children. They had
forgotten all their enmity against Ozma and against Oz. They had even
forgotten who they themselves were, or why they were in this strange and
beautiful country. As for the Nome King, they did not recognize him,
and wondered who he was.

The sun came up and sent its flood of silver rays to light the faces of
the invaders. The frowns and scowls and evil looks were all gone. Even
the most monstrous of the creatures there assembled smiled innocently
and seemed light-hearted and content merely to be alive.

Not so with Roquat, the Nome King. He had not drunk from the Forbidden
Fountain and all his former rage against Ozma and Dorothy now inflamed
him as fiercely as ever. The sight of General Guph babbling like a happy
child and playing with his hands in the cool waters of the fountain
astonished and maddened Red Roquat. Seeing that his terrible allies and
his own General refused to act, the Nome King turned to order his great
army of Nomes to advance from the tunnel and seize the helpless Oz
people.

But the Scarecrow suspected what was in the King's mind and spoke a word
to the Tin Woodman. Together they ran at Roquat and grabbing him up
tossed him into the great basin of the fountain.

The Nome King's body was round as a ball, and it bobbed up and down in
the Water of Oblivion while he spluttered and screamed with fear lest he
should drown. And when he cried out his mouth filled with water, which
ran down his throat, so that straightway he forgot all he had formerly
known just as completely as had all the other invaders.

Ozma and Dorothy could not refrain from laughing to see their dreaded
enemies become as harmless as babes. There was no danger now that Oz
would be destroyed. The only question remaining to solve was how to get
rid of this horde of intruders.

[Illustration]

The Shaggy Man kindly pulled the Nome King out of the fountain and set
him upon his thin legs. Roquat was dripping wet, but he chattered and
laughed and wanted to drink more of the water. No thought of injuring
any person was now in his mind.

Before he left the tunnel he had commanded his fifty thousand Nomes to
remain there until he ordered them to advance, as he wished to give his
allies time to conquer Oz before he appeared with his own army. Ozma did
not wish all these Nomes to overrun her land, so she advanced to King
Roquat and taking his hand in her own said gently:

"Who are you? What is your name?"

"I don't know," he replied, smiling at her. "Who are you, my dear?"

"My name is Ozma," she said; "and your name is Roquat."

"Oh, is it?" he replied, seeming pleased.

"Yes; you are King of the Nomes," she said.

"Ah; I wonder what the Nomes are!" returned the King, as if puzzled.

"They are underground elves, and that tunnel over there is full of
them," she answered. "You have a beautiful cavern at the other end of
the tunnel, so you must go to your Nomes and say: 'March home!' Then
follow after them and in time you will reach the pretty cavern where you
live."

The Nome King was much pleased to learn this, for he had forgotten he
had a cavern. So he went to the tunnel and said to his army: "March
home!" At once the Nomes turned and marched back through the tunnel, and
the King followed after them, laughing with delight to find his orders
so readily obeyed.

The Wizard went to General Guph, who was trying to count his fingers,
and told him to follow the Nome King, who was his master. Guph meekly
obeyed, and so all the Nomes quitted the Land of Oz forever.

[Illustration]

But there were still the Phanfasms and Whimsies and Growleywogs standing
around in groups, and they were so many that they filled the gardens and
trampled upon the flowers and grass because they did not know that the
tender plants would be injured by their clumsy feet. But in all other
respects they were perfectly harmless and played together like children
or gazed with pleasure upon the pretty sights of the royal gardens.

After counseling with the Scarecrow Ozma sent Omby Amby to the palace
for the Magic Belt, and when the Captain General returned with it the
Ruler of Oz at once clasped the precious Belt around her waist.

"I wish all these strange people--the Whimsies and the Growleywogs and
the Phanfasms--safe back in their own homes!" she said.

It all happened in a twinkling, for of course the wish was no sooner
spoken than it was granted.

All the hosts of the invaders were gone, and only the trampled grass
showed that they had ever been in the Land of Oz.




_How_ GLINDA WORKED A MAGIC SPELL

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

[Illustration]


"That was better than fighting," said Ozma, when all our friends were
assembled in the palace after the exciting events of the morning; and
each and every one agreed with her.

"No one was hurt," said the Wizard, delightedly.

"And no one hurt us," added Aunt Em.

"But, best of all," said Dorothy, "the wicked people have all forgotten
their wickedness, and will not wish to hurt any one after this."

"True, Princess," declared the Shaggy Man. "It seems to me that to have
reformed all those evil characters is more important than to have saved
Oz."

"Nevertheless," remarked the Scarecrow, "I am glad Oz is saved. I can
now go back to my new mansion and live happily."

"And I am glad and grateful that my pumpkin farm is saved," said Jack.

"For my part," added the Tin Woodman, "I cannot express my joy that my
lovely tin castle is not to be demolished by wicked enemies."

"Still," said Tiktok, "o-ther en-e-mies may come to Oz some day."

"Why do you allow your clock-work brains to interrupt our joy?" asked
Omby Amby, frowning at the machine man.

"I say what I am wound up to say," answered Tiktok.

"And you are right," declared Ozma. "I myself have been thinking of this
very idea, and it seems to me there are entirely too many ways for
people to get to the Land of Oz. We used to think the deadly desert that
surrounds us was enough protection; but that is no longer the case. The
Wizard and Dorothy have both come here through the air, and I am told
the earth people have invented airships that can fly anywhere they wish
them to go."

"Why, sometimes they do, and sometimes they don't," asserted Dorothy.

"But in time the airships may cause us trouble," continued Ozma, "for if
the earth folk learn how to manage them we would be overrun with
visitors who would ruin our lovely, secluded fairyland."

"That is true enough," agreed the Wizard.

"Also the desert fails to protect us in other ways," Ozma went on,
thoughtfully. "Johnny Dooit once made a sandboat that sailed across it,
and the Nome King made a tunnel under it. So I believe something ought
to be done to cut us off from the rest of the world entirely, so that no
one in the future will ever be able to intrude upon us."

"How will you do that?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I do not know; but in some way I am sure it can be accomplished.
To-morrow I will make a journey to the castle of Glinda the Good, and
ask her advice."

"May I go with you?" asked Dorothy, eagerly.

"Of course, my dear Princess; and also I invite any of our friends here
who would like to undertake the journey."

They all declared they wished to accompany their girl Ruler, for this
was indeed an important mission, since the future of the Land of Oz to a
great extent depended upon it. So Ozma gave orders to her servants to
prepare for the journey on the morrow.

That day she watched her Magic Picture, and when it showed her that all
the Nomes had returned through the tunnel to their underground caverns,
Ozma used the Magic Belt to close up the tunnel, so that the earth
underneath the desert sands became as solid as it was before the Nomes
began to dig.

Early the following morning a gay cavalcade set out to visit the famous
Sorceress, Glinda the Good. Ozma and Dorothy rode in a chariot drawn by
the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, while the Sawhorse drew the red
wagon in which rode the rest of the party.

With hearts light and free from care they traveled merrily along through
the lovely and fascinating Land of Oz, and in good season reached the
stately castle in which resided the Sorceress.

Glinda knew that they were coming.

[Illustration]

"I have been reading about you in my Magic Book," she said, as she
greeted them in her gracious way.

"What is your Magic Book like?" inquired Aunt Em, curiously.

"It is a record of everything that happens," replied the Sorceress. "As
soon as an event takes place, anywhere in the world, it is immediately
found printed in my Magic Book. So when I read its pages I am well
informed."

"Did it tell how our enemies drank the Water of 'Blivion?" asked
Dorothy.

"Yes, my dear; it told all about it. And also it told me you were all
coming to my castle, and why."

"Then," said Ozma, "I suppose you know what is in my mind, and that I am
seeking a way to prevent any one in the future from discovering the Land
of Oz."

"Yes; I know that. And while you were on your journey I have thought
of a way to accomplish your desire. For it seems to me unwise to allow
too many outside people to come here. Dorothy, with her uncle and aunt,
has now returned to Oz to live always, and there is no reason why we
should leave any way open for others to travel uninvited to our
fairyland. Let us make it impossible for any one ever to communicate
with us in any way, after this. Then we may live peacefully and
contentedly."

"Your advice is wise," returned Ozma. "I thank you, Glinda, for your
promise to assist me."

"But how can you do it?" asked Dorothy. "How can you keep every one from
ever finding Oz?"

"By making our country invisible to all eyes but our own," replied the
Sorceress, smiling. "I have a magic charm powerful enough to accomplish
that wonderful feat, and now that we have been warned of our danger by
the Nome King's invasion, I believe we must not hesitate to separate
ourselves forever from all the rest of the world."

"I agree with you," said the Ruler of Oz.

"Won't it make any difference to us?" asked Dorothy, doubtfully.

"No, my dear," Glinda answered, assuringly. "We shall still be able to
see each other and everything in the Land of Oz. It won't affect us at
all; but those who fly through the air over our country will look down
and see nothing at all. Those who come to the edge of the desert, or
try to cross it, will catch no glimpse of Oz, or know in what direction
it lies. No one will try to tunnel to us again because we cannot be seen
and therefore cannot be found. In other words, the Land of Oz will
entirely disappear from the knowledge of the rest of the world."

"That's all right," said Dorothy, cheerfully. "You may make Oz invis'ble
as soon as you please, for all I care."

"It is already invisible," Glinda stated. "I knew Ozma's wishes, and
performed the Magic Spell before you arrived."

Ozma seized the hand of the Sorceress and pressed it gratefully.

"Thank you!" she said.

[Illustration]




_How_ THE STORY OF OZ CAME TO AN END

CHAPTER THIRTY

[Illustration]


The writer of these Oz stories has received a little note from Princess
Dorothy of Oz which, for a time, has made him feel rather discontented.
The note was written on a broad white feather from a stork's wing, and
it said:

    _"You will never hear anything more about Oz, because we are now
    cut off forever from all the rest of the world. But Toto and I
    will always love you and all the other children who love us._

        "DOROTHY GALE."

This seemed to me too bad, at first, for Oz is a very interesting
fairyland. Still, we have no right to feel grieved, for we have had
enough of the history of the Land of Oz to fill six story books, and
from its quaint people and their strange adventures we have been able to
learn many useful and amusing things.

So good luck to little Dorothy and her companions. May they live long in
their invisible country and be very happy!



THE END

Chapter I
The Cyclone


Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle
Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer’s wife. Their
house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon
many miles. There were four walls, a floor and a roof, which made one
room; and this room contained a rusty looking cookstove, a cupboard for
the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds. Uncle Henry
and Aunt Em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in
another corner. There was no garret at all, and no cellar—except a
small hole dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family
could go in case one of those great whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to
crush any building in its path. It was reached by a trap door in the
middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark
hole.

When Dorothy stood in the doorway and looked around, she could see
nothing but the great gray prairie on every side. Not a tree nor a
house broke the broad sweep of flat country that reached to the edge of
the sky in all directions. The sun had baked the plowed land into a
gray mass, with little cracks running through it. Even the grass was
not green, for the sun had burned the tops of the long blades until
they were the same gray color to be seen everywhere. Once the house had
been painted, but the sun blistered the paint and the rains washed it
away, and now the house was as dull and gray as everything else.

When Aunt Em came there to live she was a young, pretty wife. The sun
and wind had changed her, too. They had taken the sparkle from her eyes
and left them a sober gray; they had taken the red from her cheeks and
lips, and they were gray also. She was thin and gaunt, and never smiled
now. When Dorothy, who was an orphan, first came to her, Aunt Em had
been so startled by the child’s laughter that she would scream and
press her hand upon her heart whenever Dorothy’s merry voice reached
her ears; and she still looked at the little girl with wonder that she
could find anything to laugh at.

Uncle Henry never laughed. He worked hard from morning till night and
did not know what joy was. He was gray also, from his long beard to his
rough boots, and he looked stern and solemn, and rarely spoke.

It was Toto that made Dorothy laugh, and saved her from growing as gray
as her other surroundings. Toto was not gray; he was a little black
dog, with long silky hair and small black eyes that twinkled merrily on
either side of his funny, wee nose. Toto played all day long, and
Dorothy played with him, and loved him dearly.

Today, however, they were not playing. Uncle Henry sat upon the
doorstep and looked anxiously at the sky, which was even grayer than
usual. Dorothy stood in the door with Toto in her arms, and looked at
the sky too. Aunt Em was washing the dishes.

From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, and Uncle Henry
and Dorothy could see where the long grass bowed in waves before the
coming storm. There now came a sharp whistling in the air from the
south, and as they turned their eyes that way they saw ripples in the
grass coming from that direction also.

Suddenly Uncle Henry stood up.

“There’s a cyclone coming, Em,” he called to his wife. “I’ll go look
after the stock.” Then he ran toward the sheds where the cows and
horses were kept.

Aunt Em dropped her work and came to the door. One glance told her of
the danger close at hand.

“Quick, Dorothy!” she screamed. “Run for the cellar!”

Toto jumped out of Dorothy’s arms and hid under the bed, and the girl
started to get him. Aunt Em, badly frightened, threw open the trap door
in the floor and climbed down the ladder into the small, dark hole.
Dorothy caught Toto at last and started to follow her aunt. When she
was halfway across the room there came a great shriek from the wind,
and the house shook so hard that she lost her footing and sat down
suddenly upon the floor.

Then a strange thing happened.

The house whirled around two or three times and rose slowly through the
air. Dorothy felt as if she were going up in a balloon.

The north and south winds met where the house stood, and made it the
exact center of the cyclone. In the middle of a cyclone the air is
generally still, but the great pressure of the wind on every side of
the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was at the very top
of the cyclone; and there it remained and was carried miles and miles
away as easily as you could carry a feather.

It was very dark, and the wind howled horribly around her, but Dorothy
found she was riding quite easily. After the first few whirls around,
and one other time when the house tipped badly, she felt as if she were
being rocked gently, like a baby in a cradle.

Toto did not like it. He ran about the room, now here, now there,
barking loudly; but Dorothy sat quite still on the floor and waited to
see what would happen.

Once Toto got too near the open trap door, and fell in; and at first
the little girl thought she had lost him. But soon she saw one of his
ears sticking up through the hole, for the strong pressure of the air
was keeping him up so that he could not fall. She crept to the hole,
caught Toto by the ear, and dragged him into the room again, afterward
closing the trap door so that no more accidents could happen.

Hour after hour passed away, and slowly Dorothy got over her fright;
but she felt quite lonely, and the wind shrieked so loudly all about
her that she nearly became deaf. At first she had wondered if she would
be dashed to pieces when the house fell again; but as the hours passed
and nothing terrible happened, she stopped worrying and resolved to
wait calmly and see what the future would bring. At last she crawled
over the swaying floor to her bed, and lay down upon it; and Toto
followed and lay down beside her.

In spite of the swaying of the house and the wailing of the wind,
Dorothy soon closed her eyes and fell fast asleep.




Chapter II
The Council with the Munchkins


She was awakened by a shock, so sudden and severe that if Dorothy had
not been lying on the soft bed she might have been hurt. As it was, the
jar made her catch her breath and wonder what had happened; and Toto
put his cold little nose into her face and whined dismally. Dorothy sat
up and noticed that the house was not moving; nor was it dark, for the
bright sunshine came in at the window, flooding the little room. She
sprang from her bed and with Toto at her heels ran and opened the door.

The little girl gave a cry of amazement and looked about her, her eyes
growing bigger and bigger at the wonderful sights she saw.

The cyclone had set the house down very gently—for a cyclone—in the
midst of a country of marvelous beauty. There were lovely patches of
greensward all about, with stately trees bearing rich and luscious
fruits. Banks of gorgeous flowers were on every hand, and birds with
rare and brilliant plumage sang and fluttered in the trees and bushes.
A little way off was a small brook, rushing and sparkling along between
green banks, and murmuring in a voice very grateful to a little girl
who had lived so long on the dry, gray prairies.

While she stood looking eagerly at the strange and beautiful sights,
she noticed coming toward her a group of the queerest people she had
ever seen. They were not as big as the grown folk she had always been
used to; but neither were they very small. In fact, they seemed about
as tall as Dorothy, who was a well-grown child for her age, although
they were, so far as looks go, many years older.

Three were men and one a woman, and all were oddly dressed. They wore
round hats that rose to a small point a foot above their heads, with
little bells around the brims that tinkled sweetly as they moved. The
hats of the men were blue; the little woman’s hat was white, and she
wore a white gown that hung in pleats from her shoulders. Over it were
sprinkled little stars that glistened in the sun like diamonds. The men
were dressed in blue, of the same shade as their hats, and wore
well-polished boots with a deep roll of blue at the tops. The men,
Dorothy thought, were about as old as Uncle Henry, for two of them had
beards. But the little woman was doubtless much older. Her face was
covered with wrinkles, her hair was nearly white, and she walked rather
stiffly.

When these people drew near the house where Dorothy was standing in the
doorway, they paused and whispered among themselves, as if afraid to
come farther. But the little old woman walked up to Dorothy, made a low
bow and said, in a sweet voice:

“You are welcome, most noble Sorceress, to the land of the Munchkins.
We are so grateful to you for having killed the Wicked Witch of the
East, and for setting our people free from bondage.”

Dorothy listened to this speech with wonder. What could the little
woman possibly mean by calling her a sorceress, and saying she had
killed the Wicked Witch of the East? Dorothy was an innocent, harmless
little girl, who had been carried by a cyclone many miles from home;
and she had never killed anything in all her life.

But the little woman evidently expected her to answer; so Dorothy said,
with hesitation, “You are very kind, but there must be some mistake. I
have not killed anything.”

“Your house did, anyway,” replied the little old woman, with a laugh,
“and that is the same thing. See!” she continued, pointing to the
corner of the house. “There are her two feet, still sticking out from
under a block of wood.”

Dorothy looked, and gave a little cry of fright. There, indeed, just
under the corner of the great beam the house rested on, two feet were
sticking out, shod in silver shoes with pointed toes.

“Oh, dear! Oh, dear!” cried Dorothy, clasping her hands together in
dismay. “The house must have fallen on her. Whatever shall we do?”

“There is nothing to be done,” said the little woman calmly.

“But who was she?” asked Dorothy.

“She was the Wicked Witch of the East, as I said,” answered the little
woman. “She has held all the Munchkins in bondage for many years,
making them slave for her night and day. Now they are all set free, and
are grateful to you for the favor.”

“Who are the Munchkins?” inquired Dorothy.

“They are the people who live in this land of the East where the Wicked
Witch ruled.”

“Are you a Munchkin?” asked Dorothy.

“No, but I am their friend, although I live in the land of the North.
When they saw the Witch of the East was dead the Munchkins sent a swift
messenger to me, and I came at once. I am the Witch of the North.”

“Oh, gracious!” cried Dorothy. “Are you a real witch?”

“Yes, indeed,” answered the little woman. “But I am a good witch, and
the people love me. I am not as powerful as the Wicked Witch was who
ruled here, or I should have set the people free myself.”

“But I thought all witches were wicked,” said the girl, who was half
frightened at facing a real witch.

“Oh, no, that is a great mistake. There were only four witches in all
the Land of Oz, and two of them, those who live in the North and the
South, are good witches. I know this is true, for I am one of them
myself, and cannot be mistaken. Those who dwelt in the East and the
West were, indeed, wicked witches; but now that you have killed one of
them, there is but one Wicked Witch in all the Land of Oz—the one who
lives in the West.”

“But,” said Dorothy, after a moment’s thought, “Aunt Em has told me
that the witches were all dead—years and years ago.”

“Who is Aunt Em?” inquired the little old woman.

“She is my aunt who lives in Kansas, where I came from.”

The Witch of the North seemed to think for a time, with her head bowed
and her eyes upon the ground. Then she looked up and said, “I do not
know where Kansas is, for I have never heard that country mentioned
before. But tell me, is it a civilized country?”

“Oh, yes,” replied Dorothy.

“Then that accounts for it. In the civilized countries I believe there
are no witches left, nor wizards, nor sorceresses, nor magicians. But,
you see, the Land of Oz has never been civilized, for we are cut off
from all the rest of the world. Therefore we still have witches and
wizards amongst us.”

“Who are the wizards?” asked Dorothy.

“Oz himself is the Great Wizard,” answered the Witch, sinking her voice
to a whisper. “He is more powerful than all the rest of us together. He
lives in the City of Emeralds.”

Dorothy was going to ask another question, but just then the Munchkins,
who had been standing silently by, gave a loud shout and pointed to the
corner of the house where the Wicked Witch had been lying.

“What is it?” asked the little old woman, and looked, and began to
laugh. The feet of the dead Witch had disappeared entirely, and nothing
was left but the silver shoes.

“She was so old,” explained the Witch of the North, “that she dried up
quickly in the sun. That is the end of her. But the silver shoes are
yours, and you shall have them to wear.” She reached down and picked up
the shoes, and after shaking the dust out of them handed them to
Dorothy.

“The Witch of the East was proud of those silver shoes,” said one of
the Munchkins, “and there is some charm connected with them; but what
it is we never knew.”

Dorothy carried the shoes into the house and placed them on the table.
Then she came out again to the Munchkins and said:

“I am anxious to get back to my aunt and uncle, for I am sure they will
worry about me. Can you help me find my way?”

The Munchkins and the Witch first looked at one another, and then at
Dorothy, and then shook their heads.

“At the East, not far from here,” said one, “there is a great desert,
and none could live to cross it.”

“It is the same at the South,” said another, “for I have been there and
seen it. The South is the country of the Quadlings.”

“I am told,” said the third man, “that it is the same at the West. And
that country, where the Winkies live, is ruled by the Wicked Witch of
the West, who would make you her slave if you passed her way.”

“The North is my home,” said the old lady, “and at its edge is the same
great desert that surrounds this Land of Oz. I’m afraid, my dear, you
will have to live with us.”

Dorothy began to sob at this, for she felt lonely among all these
strange people. Her tears seemed to grieve the kind-hearted Munchkins,
for they immediately took out their handkerchiefs and began to weep
also. As for the little old woman, she took off her cap and balanced
the point on the end of her nose, while she counted “One, two, three”
in a solemn voice. At once the cap changed to a slate, on which was
written in big, white chalk marks:

“LET DOROTHY GO TO THE CITY OF EMERALDS”


The little old woman took the slate from her nose, and having read the
words on it, asked, “Is your name Dorothy, my dear?”

“Yes,” answered the child, looking up and drying her tears.

“Then you must go to the City of Emeralds. Perhaps Oz will help you.”

“Where is this city?” asked Dorothy.

“It is exactly in the center of the country, and is ruled by Oz, the
Great Wizard I told you of.”

“Is he a good man?” inquired the girl anxiously.

“He is a good Wizard. Whether he is a man or not I cannot tell, for I
have never seen him.”

“How can I get there?” asked Dorothy.

“You must walk. It is a long journey, through a country that is
sometimes pleasant and sometimes dark and terrible. However, I will use
all the magic arts I know of to keep you from harm.”

“Won’t you go with me?” pleaded the girl, who had begun to look upon
the little old woman as her only friend.

“No, I cannot do that,” she replied, “but I will give you my kiss, and
no one will dare injure a person who has been kissed by the Witch of
the North.”

She came close to Dorothy and kissed her gently on the forehead. Where
her lips touched the girl they left a round, shining mark, as Dorothy
found out soon after.

“The road to the City of Emeralds is paved with yellow brick,” said the
Witch, “so you cannot miss it. When you get to Oz do not be afraid of
him, but tell your story and ask him to help you. Good-bye, my dear.”

The three Munchkins bowed low to her and wished her a pleasant journey,
after which they walked away through the trees. The Witch gave Dorothy
a friendly little nod, whirled around on her left heel three times, and
straightway disappeared, much to the surprise of little Toto, who
barked after her loudly enough when she had gone, because he had been
afraid even to growl while she stood by.

But Dorothy, knowing her to be a witch, had expected her to disappear
in just that way, and was not surprised in the least.




Chapter III
How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow


When Dorothy was left alone she began to feel hungry. So she went to
the cupboard and cut herself some bread, which she spread with butter.
She gave some to Toto, and taking a pail from the shelf she carried it
down to the little brook and filled it with clear, sparkling water.
Toto ran over to the trees and began to bark at the birds sitting
there. Dorothy went to get him, and saw such delicious fruit hanging
from the branches that she gathered some of it, finding it just what
she wanted to help out her breakfast.

Then she went back to the house, and having helped herself and Toto to
a good drink of the cool, clear water, she set about making ready for
the journey to the City of Emeralds.

Dorothy had only one other dress, but that happened to be clean and was
hanging on a peg beside her bed. It was gingham, with checks of white
and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings,
it was still a pretty frock. The girl washed herself carefully, dressed
herself in the clean gingham, and tied her pink sunbonnet on her head.
She took a little basket and filled it with bread from the cupboard,
laying a white cloth over the top. Then she looked down at her feet and
noticed how old and worn her shoes were.

“They surely will never do for a long journey, Toto,” she said. And
Toto looked up into her face with his little black eyes and wagged his
tail to show he knew what she meant.

At that moment Dorothy saw lying on the table the silver shoes that had
belonged to the Witch of the East.

“I wonder if they will fit me,” she said to Toto. “They would be just
the thing to take a long walk in, for they could not wear out.”

She took off her old leather shoes and tried on the silver ones, which
fitted her as well as if they had been made for her.

Finally she picked up her basket.

“Come along, Toto,” she said. “We will go to the Emerald City and ask
the Great Oz how to get back to Kansas again.”

She closed the door, locked it, and put the key carefully in the pocket
of her dress. And so, with Toto trotting along soberly behind her, she
started on her journey.

There were several roads nearby, but it did not take her long to find
the one paved with yellow bricks. Within a short time she was walking
briskly toward the Emerald City, her silver shoes tinkling merrily on
the hard, yellow road-bed. The sun shone bright and the birds sang
sweetly, and Dorothy did not feel nearly so bad as you might think a
little girl would who had been suddenly whisked away from her own
country and set down in the midst of a strange land.

She was surprised, as she walked along, to see how pretty the country
was about her. There were neat fences at the sides of the road, painted
a dainty blue color, and beyond them were fields of grain and
vegetables in abundance. Evidently the Munchkins were good farmers and
able to raise large crops. Once in a while she would pass a house, and
the people came out to look at her and bow low as she went by; for
everyone knew she had been the means of destroying the Wicked Witch and
setting them free from bondage. The houses of the Munchkins were
odd-looking dwellings, for each was round, with a big dome for a roof.
All were painted blue, for in this country of the East blue was the
favorite color.

Toward evening, when Dorothy was tired with her long walk and began to
wonder where she should pass the night, she came to a house rather
larger than the rest. On the green lawn before it many men and women
were dancing. Five little fiddlers played as loudly as possible, and
the people were laughing and singing, while a big table near by was
loaded with delicious fruits and nuts, pies and cakes, and many other
good things to eat.

The people greeted Dorothy kindly, and invited her to supper and to
pass the night with them; for this was the home of one of the richest
Munchkins in the land, and his friends were gathered with him to
celebrate their freedom from the bondage of the Wicked Witch.

Dorothy ate a hearty supper and was waited upon by the rich Munchkin
himself, whose name was Boq. Then she sat upon a settee and watched the
people dance.

When Boq saw her silver shoes he said, “You must be a great sorceress.”

“Why?” asked the girl.

“Because you wear silver shoes and have killed the Wicked Witch.
Besides, you have white in your frock, and only witches and sorceresses
wear white.”

“My dress is blue and white checked,” said Dorothy, smoothing out the
wrinkles in it.

“It is kind of you to wear that,” said Boq. “Blue is the color of the
Munchkins, and white is the witch color. So we know you are a friendly
witch.”

Dorothy did not know what to say to this, for all the people seemed to
think her a witch, and she knew very well she was only an ordinary
little girl who had come by the chance of a cyclone into a strange
land.

When she had tired watching the dancing, Boq led her into the house,
where he gave her a room with a pretty bed in it. The sheets were made
of blue cloth, and Dorothy slept soundly in them till morning, with
Toto curled up on the blue rug beside her.

She ate a hearty breakfast, and watched a wee Munchkin baby, who played
with Toto and pulled his tail and crowed and laughed in a way that
greatly amused Dorothy. Toto was a fine curiosity to all the people,
for they had never seen a dog before.

“How far is it to the Emerald City?” the girl asked.

“I do not know,” answered Boq gravely, “for I have never been there. It
is better for people to keep away from Oz, unless they have business
with him. But it is a long way to the Emerald City, and it will take
you many days. The country here is rich and pleasant, but you must pass
through rough and dangerous places before you reach the end of your
journey.”

This worried Dorothy a little, but she knew that only the Great Oz
could help her get to Kansas again, so she bravely resolved not to turn
back.

She bade her friends good-bye, and again started along the road of
yellow brick. When she had gone several miles she thought she would
stop to rest, and so climbed to the top of the fence beside the road
and sat down. There was a great cornfield beyond the fence, and not far
away she saw a Scarecrow, placed high on a pole to keep the birds from
the ripe corn.

Dorothy leaned her chin upon her hand and gazed thoughtfully at the
Scarecrow. Its head was a small sack stuffed with straw, with eyes,
nose, and mouth painted on it to represent a face. An old, pointed blue
hat, that had belonged to some Munchkin, was perched on his head, and
the rest of the figure was a blue suit of clothes, worn and faded,
which had also been stuffed with straw. On the feet were some old boots
with blue tops, such as every man wore in this country, and the figure
was raised above the stalks of corn by means of the pole stuck up its
back.

While Dorothy was looking earnestly into the queer, painted face of the
Scarecrow, she was surprised to see one of the eyes slowly wink at her.
She thought she must have been mistaken at first, for none of the
scarecrows in Kansas ever wink; but presently the figure nodded its
head to her in a friendly way. Then she climbed down from the fence and
walked up to it, while Toto ran around the pole and barked.

“Good day,” said the Scarecrow, in a rather husky voice.

“Did you speak?” asked the girl, in wonder.

“Certainly,” answered the Scarecrow. “How do you do?”

“I’m pretty well, thank you,” replied Dorothy politely. “How do you
do?”

“I’m not feeling well,” said the Scarecrow, with a smile, “for it is
very tedious being perched up here night and day to scare away crows.”

“Can’t you get down?” asked Dorothy.

“No, for this pole is stuck up my back. If you will please take away
the pole I shall be greatly obliged to you.”

Dorothy reached up both arms and lifted the figure off the pole, for,
being stuffed with straw, it was quite light.

“Thank you very much,” said the Scarecrow, when he had been set down on
the ground. “I feel like a new man.”

Dorothy was puzzled at this, for it sounded queer to hear a stuffed man
speak, and to see him bow and walk along beside her.

“Who are you?” asked the Scarecrow when he had stretched himself and
yawned. “And where are you going?”

“My name is Dorothy,” said the girl, “and I am going to the Emerald
City, to ask the Great Oz to send me back to Kansas.”

“Where is the Emerald City?” he inquired. “And who is Oz?”

“Why, don’t you know?” she returned, in surprise.

“No, indeed. I don’t know anything. You see, I am stuffed, so I have no
brains at all,” he answered sadly.

“Oh,” said Dorothy, “I’m awfully sorry for you.”

“Do you think,” he asked, “if I go to the Emerald City with you, that
Oz would give me some brains?”

“I cannot tell,” she returned, “but you may come with me, if you like.
If Oz will not give you any brains you will be no worse off than you
are now.”

“That is true,” said the Scarecrow. “You see,” he continued
confidentially, “I don’t mind my legs and arms and body being stuffed,
because I cannot get hurt. If anyone treads on my toes or sticks a pin
into me, it doesn’t matter, for I can’t feel it. But I do not want
people to call me a fool, and if my head stays stuffed with straw
instead of with brains, as yours is, how am I ever to know anything?”

“I understand how you feel,” said the little girl, who was truly sorry
for him. “If you will come with me I’ll ask Oz to do all he can for
you.”

“Thank you,” he answered gratefully.

They walked back to the road. Dorothy helped him over the fence, and
they started along the path of yellow brick for the Emerald City.

Toto did not like this addition to the party at first. He smelled
around the stuffed man as if he suspected there might be a nest of rats
in the straw, and he often growled in an unfriendly way at the
Scarecrow.

“Don’t mind Toto,” said Dorothy to her new friend. “He never bites.”

“Oh, I’m not afraid,” replied the Scarecrow. “He can’t hurt the straw.
Do let me carry that basket for you. I shall not mind it, for I can’t
get tired. I’ll tell you a secret,” he continued, as he walked along.
“There is only one thing in the world I am afraid of.”

“What is that?” asked Dorothy; “the Munchkin farmer who made you?”

“No,” answered the Scarecrow; “it’s a lighted match.”




Chapter IV
The Road Through the Forest


After a few hours the road began to be rough, and the walking grew so
difficult that the Scarecrow often stumbled over the yellow bricks,
which were here very uneven. Sometimes, indeed, they were broken or
missing altogether, leaving holes that Toto jumped across and Dorothy
walked around. As for the Scarecrow, having no brains, he walked
straight ahead, and so stepped into the holes and fell at full length
on the hard bricks. It never hurt him, however, and Dorothy would pick
him up and set him upon his feet again, while he joined her in laughing
merrily at his own mishap.

The farms were not nearly so well cared for here as they were farther
back. There were fewer houses and fewer fruit trees, and the farther
they went the more dismal and lonesome the country became.

At noon they sat down by the roadside, near a little brook, and Dorothy
opened her basket and got out some bread. She offered a piece to the
Scarecrow, but he refused.

“I am never hungry,” he said, “and it is a lucky thing I am not, for my
mouth is only painted, and if I should cut a hole in it so I could eat,
the straw I am stuffed with would come out, and that would spoil the
shape of my head.”

Dorothy saw at once that this was true, so she only nodded and went on
eating her bread.

“Tell me something about yourself and the country you came from,” said
the Scarecrow, when she had finished her dinner. So she told him all
about Kansas, and how gray everything was there, and how the cyclone
had carried her to this queer Land of Oz.

The Scarecrow listened carefully, and said, “I cannot understand why
you should wish to leave this beautiful country and go back to the dry,
gray place you call Kansas.”

“That is because you have no brains” answered the girl. “No matter how
dreary and gray our homes are, we people of flesh and blood would
rather live there than in any other country, be it ever so beautiful.
There is no place like home.”

The Scarecrow sighed.

“Of course I cannot understand it,” he said. “If your heads were
stuffed with straw, like mine, you would probably all live in the
beautiful places, and then Kansas would have no people at all. It is
fortunate for Kansas that you have brains.”

“Won’t you tell me a story, while we are resting?” asked the child.

The Scarecrow looked at her reproachfully, and answered:

“My life has been so short that I really know nothing whatever. I was
only made day before yesterday. What happened in the world before that
time is all unknown to me. Luckily, when the farmer made my head, one
of the first things he did was to paint my ears, so that I heard what
was going on. There was another Munchkin with him, and the first thing
I heard was the farmer saying, ‘How do you like those ears?’

“‘They aren’t straight,’” answered the other.

“‘Never mind,’” said the farmer. “‘They are ears just the same,’” which
was true enough.

“‘Now I’ll make the eyes,’” said the farmer. So he painted my right
eye, and as soon as it was finished I found myself looking at him and
at everything around me with a great deal of curiosity, for this was my
first glimpse of the world.

“‘That’s a rather pretty eye,’” remarked the Munchkin who was watching
the farmer. “‘Blue paint is just the color for eyes.’

“‘I think I’ll make the other a little bigger,’” said the farmer. And
when the second eye was done I could see much better than before. Then
he made my nose and my mouth. But I did not speak, because at that time
I didn’t know what a mouth was for. I had the fun of watching them make
my body and my arms and legs; and when they fastened on my head, at
last, I felt very proud, for I thought I was just as good a man as
anyone.

“‘This fellow will scare the crows fast enough,’ said the farmer. ‘He
looks just like a man.’

“‘Why, he is a man,’ said the other, and I quite agreed with him. The
farmer carried me under his arm to the cornfield, and set me up on a
tall stick, where you found me. He and his friend soon after walked
away and left me alone.

“I did not like to be deserted this way. So I tried to walk after them.
But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay on
that pole. It was a lonely life to lead, for I had nothing to think of,
having been made such a little while before. Many crows and other birds
flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew away
again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me feel
that I was quite an important person. By and by an old crow flew near
me, and after looking at me carefully he perched upon my shoulder and
said:

“‘I wonder if that farmer thought to fool me in this clumsy manner. Any
crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.’ Then he
hopped down at my feet and ate all the corn he wanted. The other birds,
seeing he was not harmed by me, came to eat the corn too, so in a short
time there was a great flock of them about me.

“I felt sad at this, for it showed I was not such a good Scarecrow
after all; but the old crow comforted me, saying, ‘If you only had
brains in your head you would be as good a man as any of them, and a
better man than some of them. Brains are the only things worth having
in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.’

“After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try
hard to get some brains. By good luck you came along and pulled me off
the stake, and from what you say I am sure the Great Oz will give me
brains as soon as we get to the Emerald City.”

“I hope so,” said Dorothy earnestly, “since you seem anxious to have
them.”

“Oh, yes; I am anxious,” returned the Scarecrow. “It is such an
uncomfortable feeling to know one is a fool.”

“Well,” said the girl, “let us go.” And she handed the basket to the
Scarecrow.

There were no fences at all by the roadside now, and the land was rough
and untilled. Toward evening they came to a great forest, where the
trees grew so big and close together that their branches met over the
road of yellow brick. It was almost dark under the trees, for the
branches shut out the daylight; but the travelers did not stop, and
went on into the forest.

“If this road goes in, it must come out,” said the Scarecrow, “and as
the Emerald City is at the other end of the road, we must go wherever
it leads us.”

“Anyone would know that,” said Dorothy.

“Certainly; that is why I know it,” returned the Scarecrow. “If it
required brains to figure it out, I never should have said it.”

After an hour or so the light faded away, and they found themselves
stumbling along in the darkness. Dorothy could not see at all, but Toto
could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow
declared he could see as well as by day. So she took hold of his arm
and managed to get along fairly well.

“If you see any house, or any place where we can pass the night,” she
said, “you must tell me; for it is very uncomfortable walking in the
dark.”

Soon after the Scarecrow stopped.

“I see a little cottage at the right of us,” he said, “built of logs
and branches. Shall we go there?”

“Yes, indeed,” answered the child. “I am all tired out.”

So the Scarecrow led her through the trees until they reached the
cottage, and Dorothy entered and found a bed of dried leaves in one
corner. She lay down at once, and with Toto beside her soon fell into a
sound sleep. The Scarecrow, who was never tired, stood up in another
corner and waited patiently until morning came.




Chapter V
The Rescue of the Tin Woodman


When Dorothy awoke the sun was shining through the trees and Toto had
long been out chasing birds around him and squirrels. She sat up and
looked around her. There was the Scarecrow, still standing patiently in
his corner, waiting for her.

“We must go and search for water,” she said to him.

“Why do you want water?” he asked.

“To wash my face clean after the dust of the road, and to drink, so the
dry bread will not stick in my throat.”

“It must be inconvenient to be made of flesh,” said the Scarecrow
thoughtfully, “for you must sleep, and eat and drink. However, you have
brains, and it is worth a lot of bother to be able to think properly.”

They left the cottage and walked through the trees until they found a
little spring of clear water, where Dorothy drank and bathed and ate
her breakfast. She saw there was not much bread left in the basket, and
the girl was thankful the Scarecrow did not have to eat anything, for
there was scarcely enough for herself and Toto for the day.

When she had finished her meal, and was about to go back to the road of
yellow brick, she was startled to hear a deep groan near by.

“What was that?” she asked timidly.

“I cannot imagine,” replied the Scarecrow; “but we can go and see.”

Just then another groan reached their ears, and the sound seemed to
come from behind them. They turned and walked through the forest a few
steps, when Dorothy discovered something shining in a ray of sunshine
that fell between the trees. She ran to the place and then stopped
short, with a little cry of surprise.

One of the big trees had been partly chopped through, and standing
beside it, with an uplifted axe in his hands, was a man made entirely
of tin. His head and arms and legs were jointed upon his body, but he
stood perfectly motionless, as if he could not stir at all.

Dorothy looked at him in amazement, and so did the Scarecrow, while
Toto barked sharply and made a snap at the tin legs, which hurt his
teeth.

“Did you groan?” asked Dorothy.

“Yes,” answered the tin man, “I did. I’ve been groaning for more than a
year, and no one has ever heard me before or come to help me.”

“What can I do for you?” she inquired softly, for she was moved by the
sad voice in which the man spoke.

“Get an oil-can and oil my joints,” he answered. “They are rusted so
badly that I cannot move them at all; if I am well oiled I shall soon
be all right again. You will find an oil-can on a shelf in my cottage.”

Dorothy at once ran back to the cottage and found the oil-can, and then
she returned and asked anxiously, “Where are your joints?”

“Oil my neck, first,” replied the Tin Woodman. So she oiled it, and as
it was quite badly rusted the Scarecrow took hold of the tin head and
moved it gently from side to side until it worked freely, and then the
man could turn it himself.

“Now oil the joints in my arms,” he said. And Dorothy oiled them and
the Scarecrow bent them carefully until they were quite free from rust
and as good as new.

The Tin Woodman gave a sigh of satisfaction and lowered his axe, which
he leaned against the tree.

“This is a great comfort,” he said. “I have been holding that axe in
the air ever since I rusted, and I’m glad to be able to put it down at
last. Now, if you will oil the joints of my legs, I shall be all right
once more.”

So they oiled his legs until he could move them freely; and he thanked
them again and again for his release, for he seemed a very polite
creature, and very grateful.

“I might have stood there always if you had not come along,” he said;
“so you have certainly saved my life. How did you happen to be here?”

“We are on our way to the Emerald City to see the Great Oz,” she
answered, “and we stopped at your cottage to pass the night.”

“Why do you wish to see Oz?” he asked.

“I want him to send me back to Kansas, and the Scarecrow wants him to
put a few brains into his head,” she replied.

The Tin Woodman appeared to think deeply for a moment. Then he said:

“Do you suppose Oz could give me a heart?”

“Why, I guess so,” Dorothy answered. “It would be as easy as to give
the Scarecrow brains.”

“True,” the Tin Woodman returned. “So, if you will allow me to join
your party, I will also go to the Emerald City and ask Oz to help me.”

“Come along,” said the Scarecrow heartily, and Dorothy added that she
would be pleased to have his company. So the Tin Woodman shouldered his
axe and they all passed through the forest until they came to the road
that was paved with yellow brick.

The Tin Woodman had asked Dorothy to put the oil-can in her basket.
“For,” he said, “if I should get caught in the rain, and rust again, I
would need the oil-can badly.”

It was a bit of good luck to have their new comrade join the party, for
soon after they had begun their journey again they came to a place
where the trees and branches grew so thick over the road that the
travelers could not pass. But the Tin Woodman set to work with his axe
and chopped so well that soon he cleared a passage for the entire
party.

Dorothy was thinking so earnestly as they walked along that she did not
notice when the Scarecrow stumbled into a hole and rolled over to the
side of the road. Indeed he was obliged to call to her to help him up
again.

“Why didn’t you walk around the hole?” asked the Tin Woodman.

“I don’t know enough,” replied the Scarecrow cheerfully. “My head is
stuffed with straw, you know, and that is why I am going to Oz to ask
him for some brains.”

“Oh, I see,” said the Tin Woodman. “But, after all, brains are not the
best things in the world.”

“Have you any?” inquired the Scarecrow.

“No, my head is quite empty,” answered the Woodman. “But once I had
brains, and a heart also; so, having tried them both, I should much
rather have a heart.”

“And why is that?” asked the Scarecrow.

“I will tell you my story, and then you will know.”

So, while they were walking through the forest, the Tin Woodman told
the following story:

“I was born the son of a woodman who chopped down trees in the forest
and sold the wood for a living. When I grew up, I too became a
wood-chopper, and after my father died I took care of my old mother as
long as she lived. Then I made up my mind that instead of living alone
I would marry, so that I might not become lonely.

“There was one of the Munchkin girls who was so beautiful that I soon
grew to love her with all my heart. She, on her part, promised to marry
me as soon as I could earn enough money to build a better house for
her; so I set to work harder than ever. But the girl lived with an old
woman who did not want her to marry anyone, for she was so lazy she
wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the
housework. So the old woman went to the Wicked Witch of the East, and
promised her two sheep and a cow if she would prevent the marriage.
Thereupon the Wicked Witch enchanted my axe, and when I was chopping
away at my best one day, for I was anxious to get the new house and my
wife as soon as possible, the axe slipped all at once and cut off my
left leg.

“This at first seemed a great misfortune, for I knew a one-legged man
could not do very well as a wood-chopper. So I went to a tinsmith and
had him make me a new leg out of tin. The leg worked very well, once I
was used to it. But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East, for
she had promised the old woman I should not marry the pretty Munchkin
girl. When I began chopping again, my axe slipped and cut off my right
leg. Again I went to the tinsmith, and again he made me a leg out of
tin. After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after the other;
but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones. The Wicked
Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at first I
thought that was the end of me. But the tinsmith happened to come
along, and he made me a new head out of tin.

“I thought I had beaten the Wicked Witch then, and I worked harder than
ever; but I little knew how cruel my enemy could be. She thought of a
new way to kill my love for the beautiful Munchkin maiden, and made my
axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into
two halves. Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body
of tin, fastening my tin arms and legs and head to it, by means of
joints, so that I could move around as well as ever. But, alas! I had
now no heart, so that I lost all my love for the Munchkin girl, and did
not care whether I married her or not. I suppose she is still living
with the old woman, waiting for me to come after her.

“My body shone so brightly in the sun that I felt very proud of it and
it did not matter now if my axe slipped, for it could not cut me. There
was only one danger—that my joints would rust; but I kept an oil-can in
my cottage and took care to oil myself whenever I needed it. However,
there came a day when I forgot to do this, and, being caught in a
rainstorm, before I thought of the danger my joints had rusted, and I
was left to stand in the woods until you came to help me. It was a
terrible thing to undergo, but during the year I stood there I had time
to think that the greatest loss I had known was the loss of my heart.
While I was in love I was the happiest man on earth; but no one can
love who has not a heart, and so I am resolved to ask Oz to give me
one. If he does, I will go back to the Munchkin maiden and marry her.”

Both Dorothy and the Scarecrow had been greatly interested in the story
of the Tin Woodman, and now they knew why he was so anxious to get a
new heart.

“All the same,” said the Scarecrow, “I shall ask for brains instead of
a heart; for a fool would not know what to do with a heart if he had
one.”

“I shall take the heart,” returned the Tin Woodman; “for brains do not
make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world.”

Dorothy did not say anything, for she was puzzled to know which of her
two friends was right, and she decided if she could only get back to
Kansas and Aunt Em, it did not matter so much whether the Woodman had
no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted.

What worried her most was that the bread was nearly gone, and another
meal for herself and Toto would empty the basket. To be sure, neither
the Woodman nor the Scarecrow ever ate anything, but she was not made
of tin nor straw, and could not live unless she was fed.




Chapter VI
The Cowardly Lion


All this time Dorothy and her companions had been walking through the
thick woods. The road was still paved with yellow brick, but these were
much covered by dried branches and dead leaves from the trees, and the
walking was not at all good.

There were few birds in this part of the forest, for birds love the
open country where there is plenty of sunshine. But now and then there
came a deep growl from some wild animal hidden among the trees. These
sounds made the little girl’s heart beat fast, for she did not know
what made them; but Toto knew, and he walked close to Dorothy’s side,
and did not even bark in return.

“How long will it be,” the child asked of the Tin Woodman, “before we
are out of the forest?”

“I cannot tell,” was the answer, “for I have never been to the Emerald
City. But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it
was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the
city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful. But I am not afraid so
long as I have my oil-can, and nothing can hurt the Scarecrow, while
you bear upon your forehead the mark of the Good Witch’s kiss, and that
will protect you from harm.”

“But Toto!” said the girl anxiously. “What will protect him?”

“We must protect him ourselves if he is in danger,” replied the Tin
Woodman.

Just as he spoke there came from the forest a terrible roar, and the
next moment a great Lion bounded into the road. With one blow of his
paw he sent the Scarecrow spinning over and over to the edge of the
road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws. But,
to the Lion’s surprise, he could make no impression on the tin,
although the Woodman fell over in the road and lay still.

Little Toto, now that he had an enemy to face, ran barking toward the
Lion, and the great beast had opened his mouth to bite the dog, when
Dorothy, fearing Toto would be killed, and heedless of danger, rushed
forward and slapped the Lion upon his nose as hard as she could, while
she cried out:

“Don’t you dare to bite Toto! You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a
big beast like you, to bite a poor little dog!”

“I didn’t bite him,” said the Lion, as he rubbed his nose with his paw
where Dorothy had hit it.

“No, but you tried to,” she retorted. “You are nothing but a big
coward.”

“I know it,” said the Lion, hanging his head in shame. “I’ve always
known it. But how can I help it?”

“I don’t know, I’m sure. To think of your striking a stuffed man, like
the poor Scarecrow!”

“Is he stuffed?” asked the Lion in surprise, as he watched her pick up
the Scarecrow and set him upon his feet, while she patted him into
shape again.

“Of course he’s stuffed,” replied Dorothy, who was still angry.

“That’s why he went over so easily,” remarked the Lion. “It astonished
me to see him whirl around so. Is the other one stuffed also?”

“No,” said Dorothy, “he’s made of tin.” And she helped the Woodman up
again.

“That’s why he nearly blunted my claws,” said the Lion. “When they
scratched against the tin it made a cold shiver run down my back. What
is that little animal you are so tender of?”

“He is my dog, Toto,” answered Dorothy.

“Is he made of tin, or stuffed?” asked the Lion.

“Neither. He’s a—a—a meat dog,” said the girl.

“Oh! He’s a curious animal and seems remarkably small, now that I look
at him. No one would think of biting such a little thing, except a
coward like me,” continued the Lion sadly.

“What makes you a coward?” asked Dorothy, looking at the great beast in
wonder, for he was as big as a small horse.

“It’s a mystery,” replied the Lion. “I suppose I was born that way. All
the other animals in the forest naturally expect me to be brave, for
the Lion is everywhere thought to be the King of Beasts. I learned that
if I roared very loudly every living thing was frightened and got out
of my way. Whenever I’ve met a man I’ve been awfully scared; but I just
roared at him, and he has always run away as fast as he could go. If
the elephants and the tigers and the bears had ever tried to fight me,
I should have run myself—I’m such a coward; but just as soon as they
hear me roar they all try to get away from me, and of course I let them
go.”

“But that isn’t right. The King of Beasts shouldn’t be a coward,” said
the Scarecrow.

“I know it,” returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip
of his tail. “It is my great sorrow, and makes my life very unhappy.
But whenever there is danger, my heart begins to beat fast.”

“Perhaps you have heart disease,” said the Tin Woodman.

“It may be,” said the Lion.

“If you have,” continued the Tin Woodman, “you ought to be glad, for it
proves you have a heart. For my part, I have no heart; so I cannot have
heart disease.”

“Perhaps,” said the Lion thoughtfully, “if I had no heart I should not
be a coward.”

“Have you brains?” asked the Scarecrow.

“I suppose so. I’ve never looked to see,” replied the Lion.

“I am going to the Great Oz to ask him to give me some,” remarked the
Scarecrow, “for my head is stuffed with straw.”

“And I am going to ask him to give me a heart,” said the Woodman.

“And I am going to ask him to send Toto and me back to Kansas,” added
Dorothy.

“Do you think Oz could give me courage?” asked the Cowardly Lion.

“Just as easily as he could give me brains,” said the Scarecrow.

“Or give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“Or send me back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.

“Then, if you don’t mind, I’ll go with you,” said the Lion, “for my
life is simply unbearable without a bit of courage.”

“You will be very welcome,” answered Dorothy, “for you will help to
keep away the other wild beasts. It seems to me they must be more
cowardly than you are if they allow you to scare them so easily.”

“They really are,” said the Lion, “but that doesn’t make me any braver,
and as long as I know myself to be a coward I shall be unhappy.”

So once more the little company set off upon the journey, the Lion
walking with stately strides at Dorothy’s side. Toto did not approve of
this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had
been crushed between the Lion’s great jaws. But after a time he became
more at ease, and presently Toto and the Cowardly Lion had grown to be
good friends.

During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the
peace of their journey. Once, indeed, the Tin Woodman stepped upon a
beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little
thing. This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always
careful not to hurt any living creature; and as he walked along he wept
several tears of sorrow and regret. These tears ran slowly down his
face and over the hinges of his jaw, and there they rusted. When
Dorothy presently asked him a question the Tin Woodman could not open
his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together. He became greatly
frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve him, but
she could not understand. The Lion was also puzzled to know what was
wrong. But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy’s basket and
oiled the Woodman’s jaws, so that after a few moments he could talk as
well as before.

“This will serve me a lesson,” said he, “to look where I step. For if I
should kill another bug or beetle I should surely cry again, and crying
rusts my jaws so that I cannot speak.”

Thereafter he walked very carefully, with his eyes on the road, and
when he saw a tiny ant toiling by he would step over it, so as not to
harm it. The Tin Woodman knew very well he had no heart, and therefore
he took great care never to be cruel or unkind to anything.

“You people with hearts,” he said, “have something to guide you, and
need never do wrong; but I have no heart, and so I must be very
careful. When Oz gives me a heart of course I needn’t mind so much.”




Chapter VII
The Journey to the Great Oz


They were obliged to camp out that night under a large tree in the
forest, for there were no houses near. The tree made a good, thick
covering to protect them from the dew, and the Tin Woodman chopped a
great pile of wood with his axe and Dorothy built a splendid fire that
warmed her and made her feel less lonely. She and Toto ate the last of
their bread, and now she did not know what they would do for breakfast.

“If you wish,” said the Lion, “I will go into the forest and kill a
deer for you. You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so
peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very
good breakfast.”

“Don’t! Please don’t,” begged the Tin Woodman. “I should certainly weep
if you killed a poor deer, and then my jaws would rust again.”

But the Lion went away into the forest and found his own supper, and no
one ever knew what it was, for he didn’t mention it. And the Scarecrow
found a tree full of nuts and filled Dorothy’s basket with them, so
that she would not be hungry for a long time. She thought this was very
kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at the
awkward way in which the poor creature picked up the nuts. His padded
hands were so clumsy and the nuts were so small that he dropped almost
as many as he put in the basket. But the Scarecrow did not mind how
long it took him to fill the basket, for it enabled him to keep away
from the fire, as he feared a spark might get into his straw and burn
him up. So he kept a good distance away from the flames, and only came
near to cover Dorothy with dry leaves when she lay down to sleep. These
kept her very snug and warm, and she slept soundly until morning.

When it was daylight, the girl bathed her face in a little rippling
brook, and soon after they all started toward the Emerald City.

This was to be an eventful day for the travelers. They had hardly been
walking an hour when they saw before them a great ditch that crossed
the road and divided the forest as far as they could see on either
side. It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and
looked into it they could see it was also very deep, and there were
many big, jagged rocks at the bottom. The sides were so steep that none
of them could climb down, and for a moment it seemed that their journey
must end.

“What shall we do?” asked Dorothy despairingly.

“I haven’t the faintest idea,” said the Tin Woodman, and the Lion shook
his shaggy mane and looked thoughtful.

But the Scarecrow said, “We cannot fly, that is certain. Neither can we
climb down into this great ditch. Therefore, if we cannot jump over it,
we must stop where we are.”

“I think I could jump over it,” said the Cowardly Lion, after measuring
the distance carefully in his mind.

“Then we are all right,” answered the Scarecrow, “for you can carry us
all over on your back, one at a time.”

“Well, I’ll try it,” said the Lion. “Who will go first?”

“I will,” declared the Scarecrow, “for, if you found that you could not
jump over the gulf, Dorothy would be killed, or the Tin Woodman badly
dented on the rocks below. But if I am on your back it will not matter
so much, for the fall would not hurt me at all.”

“I am terribly afraid of falling, myself,” said the Cowardly Lion, “but
I suppose there is nothing to do but try it. So get on my back and we
will make the attempt.”

The Scarecrow sat upon the Lion’s back, and the big beast walked to the
edge of the gulf and crouched down.

“Why don’t you run and jump?” asked the Scarecrow.

“Because that isn’t the way we Lions do these things,” he replied. Then
giving a great spring, he shot through the air and landed safely on the
other side. They were all greatly pleased to see how easily he did it,
and after the Scarecrow had got down from his back the Lion sprang
across the ditch again.

Dorothy thought she would go next; so she took Toto in her arms and
climbed on the Lion’s back, holding tightly to his mane with one hand.
The next moment it seemed as if she were flying through the air; and
then, before she had time to think about it, she was safe on the other
side. The Lion went back a third time and got the Tin Woodman, and then
they all sat down for a few moments to give the beast a chance to rest,
for his great leaps had made his breath short, and he panted like a big
dog that has been running too long.

They found the forest very thick on this side, and it looked dark and
gloomy. After the Lion had rested they started along the road of yellow
brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they would
come to the end of the woods and reach the bright sunshine again. To
add to their discomfort, they soon heard strange noises in the depths
of the forest, and the Lion whispered to them that it was in this part
of the country that the Kalidahs lived.

“What are the Kalidahs?” asked the girl.

“They are monstrous beasts with bodies like bears and heads like
tigers,” replied the Lion, “and with claws so long and sharp that they
could tear me in two as easily as I could kill Toto. I’m terribly
afraid of the Kalidahs.”

“I’m not surprised that you are,” returned Dorothy. “They must be
dreadful beasts.”

The Lion was about to reply when suddenly they came to another gulf
across the road. But this one was so broad and deep that the Lion knew
at once he could not leap across it.

So they sat down to consider what they should do, and after serious
thought the Scarecrow said:

“Here is a great tree, standing close to the ditch. If the Tin Woodman
can chop it down, so that it will fall to the other side, we can walk
across it easily.”

“That is a first-rate idea,” said the Lion. “One would almost suspect
you had brains in your head, instead of straw.”

The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree
was soon chopped nearly through. Then the Lion put his strong front
legs against the tree and pushed with all his might, and slowly the big
tree tipped and fell with a crash across the ditch, with its top
branches on the other side.

They had just started to cross this queer bridge when a sharp growl
made them all look up, and to their horror they saw running toward them
two great beasts with bodies like bears and heads like tigers.

“They are the Kalidahs!” said the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble.

“Quick!” cried the Scarecrow. “Let us cross over.”

So Dorothy went first, holding Toto in her arms, the Tin Woodman
followed, and the Scarecrow came next. The Lion, although he was
certainly afraid, turned to face the Kalidahs, and then he gave so loud
and terrible a roar that Dorothy screamed and the Scarecrow fell over
backward, while even the fierce beasts stopped short and looked at him
in surprise.

But, seeing they were bigger than the Lion, and remembering that there
were two of them and only one of him, the Kalidahs again rushed
forward, and the Lion crossed over the tree and turned to see what they
would do next. Without stopping an instant the fierce beasts also began
to cross the tree. And the Lion said to Dorothy:

“We are lost, for they will surely tear us to pieces with their sharp
claws. But stand close behind me, and I will fight them as long as I am
alive.”

“Wait a minute!” called the Scarecrow. He had been thinking what was
best to be done, and now he asked the Woodman to chop away the end of
the tree that rested on their side of the ditch. The Tin Woodman began
to use his axe at once, and, just as the two Kalidahs were nearly
across, the tree fell with a crash into the gulf, carrying the ugly,
snarling brutes with it, and both were dashed to pieces on the sharp
rocks at the bottom.

“Well,” said the Cowardly Lion, drawing a long breath of relief, “I see
we are going to live a little while longer, and I am glad of it, for it
must be a very uncomfortable thing not to be alive. Those creatures
frightened me so badly that my heart is beating yet.”

“Ah,” said the Tin Woodman sadly, “I wish I had a heart to beat.”

This adventure made the travelers more anxious than ever to get out of
the forest, and they walked so fast that Dorothy became tired, and had
to ride on the Lion’s back. To their great joy the trees became thinner
the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly came upon
a broad river, flowing swiftly just before them. On the other side of
the water they could see the road of yellow brick running through a
beautiful country, with green meadows dotted with bright flowers and
all the road bordered with trees hanging full of delicious fruits. They
were greatly pleased to see this delightful country before them.

“How shall we cross the river?” asked Dorothy.

“That is easily done,” replied the Scarecrow. “The Tin Woodman must
build us a raft, so we can float to the other side.”

So the Woodman took his axe and began to chop down small trees to make
a raft, and while he was busy at this the Scarecrow found on the
riverbank a tree full of fine fruit. This pleased Dorothy, who had
eaten nothing but nuts all day, and she made a hearty meal of the ripe
fruit.

But it takes time to make a raft, even when one is as industrious and
untiring as the Tin Woodman, and when night came the work was not done.
So they found a cozy place under the trees where they slept well until
the morning; and Dorothy dreamed of the Emerald City, and of the good
Wizard Oz, who would soon send her back to her own home again.




Chapter VIII
The Deadly Poppy Field


Our little party of travelers awakened the next morning refreshed and
full of hope, and Dorothy breakfasted like a princess off peaches and
plums from the trees beside the river. Behind them was the dark forest
they had passed safely through, although they had suffered many
discouragements; but before them was a lovely, sunny country that
seemed to beckon them on to the Emerald City.

To be sure, the broad river now cut them off from this beautiful land.
But the raft was nearly done, and after the Tin Woodman had cut a few
more logs and fastened them together with wooden pins, they were ready
to start. Dorothy sat down in the middle of the raft and held Toto in
her arms. When the Cowardly Lion stepped upon the raft it tipped badly,
for he was big and heavy; but the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood
upon the other end to steady it, and they had long poles in their hands
to push the raft through the water.

They got along quite well at first, but when they reached the middle of
the river the swift current swept the raft downstream, farther and
farther away from the road of yellow brick. And the water grew so deep
that the long poles would not touch the bottom.

“This is bad,” said the Tin Woodman, “for if we cannot get to the land
we shall be carried into the country of the Wicked Witch of the West,
and she will enchant us and make us her slaves.”

“And then I should get no brains,” said the Scarecrow.

“And I should get no courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.

“And I should get no heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“And I should never get back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.

“We must certainly get to the Emerald City if we can,” the Scarecrow
continued, and he pushed so hard on his long pole that it stuck fast in
the mud at the bottom of the river. Then, before he could pull it out
again—or let go—the raft was swept away, and the poor Scarecrow was
left clinging to the pole in the middle of the river.

“Good-bye!” he called after them, and they were very sorry to leave
him. Indeed, the Tin Woodman began to cry, but fortunately remembered
that he might rust, and so dried his tears on Dorothy’s apron.

Of course this was a bad thing for the Scarecrow.

“I am now worse off than when I first met Dorothy,” he thought. “Then,
I was stuck on a pole in a cornfield, where I could make-believe scare
the crows, at any rate. But surely there is no use for a Scarecrow
stuck on a pole in the middle of a river. I am afraid I shall never
have any brains, after all!”

Down the stream the raft floated, and the poor Scarecrow was left far
behind. Then the Lion said:

“Something must be done to save us. I think I can swim to the shore and
pull the raft after me, if you will only hold fast to the tip of my
tail.”

So he sprang into the water, and the Tin Woodman caught fast hold of
his tail. Then the Lion began to swim with all his might toward the
shore. It was hard work, although he was so big; but by and by they
were drawn out of the current, and then Dorothy took the Tin Woodman’s
long pole and helped push the raft to the land.

They were all tired out when they reached the shore at last and stepped
off upon the pretty green grass, and they also knew that the stream had
carried them a long way past the road of yellow brick that led to the
Emerald City.

“What shall we do now?” asked the Tin Woodman, as the Lion lay down on
the grass to let the sun dry him.

“We must get back to the road, in some way,” said Dorothy.

“The best plan will be to walk along the riverbank until we come to the
road again,” remarked the Lion.

So, when they were rested, Dorothy picked up her basket and they
started along the grassy bank, to the road from which the river had
carried them. It was a lovely country, with plenty of flowers and fruit
trees and sunshine to cheer them, and had they not felt so sorry for
the poor Scarecrow, they could have been very happy.

They walked along as fast as they could, Dorothy only stopping once to
pick a beautiful flower; and after a time the Tin Woodman cried out:
“Look!”

Then they all looked at the river and saw the Scarecrow perched upon
his pole in the middle of the water, looking very lonely and sad.

“What can we do to save him?” asked Dorothy.

The Lion and the Woodman both shook their heads, for they did not know.
So they sat down upon the bank and gazed wistfully at the Scarecrow
until a Stork flew by, who, upon seeing them, stopped to rest at the
water’s edge.

“Who are you and where are you going?” asked the Stork.

“I am Dorothy,” answered the girl, “and these are my friends, the Tin
Woodman and the Cowardly Lion; and we are going to the Emerald City.”

“This isn’t the road,” said the Stork, as she twisted her long neck and
looked sharply at the queer party.

“I know it,” returned Dorothy, “but we have lost the Scarecrow, and are
wondering how we shall get him again.”

“Where is he?” asked the Stork.

“Over there in the river,” answered the little girl.

“If he wasn’t so big and heavy I would get him for you,” remarked the
Stork.

“He isn’t heavy a bit,” said Dorothy eagerly, “for he is stuffed with
straw; and if you will bring him back to us, we shall thank you ever
and ever so much.”

“Well, I’ll try,” said the Stork, “but if I find he is too heavy to
carry I shall have to drop him in the river again.”

So the big bird flew into the air and over the water till she came to
where the Scarecrow was perched upon his pole. Then the Stork with her
great claws grabbed the Scarecrow by the arm and carried him up into
the air and back to the bank, where Dorothy and the Lion and the Tin
Woodman and Toto were sitting.

When the Scarecrow found himself among his friends again, he was so
happy that he hugged them all, even the Lion and Toto; and as they
walked along he sang “Tol-de-ri-de-oh!” at every step, he felt so gay.

“I was afraid I should have to stay in the river forever,” he said,
“but the kind Stork saved me, and if I ever get any brains I shall find
the Stork again and do her some kindness in return.”

“That’s all right,” said the Stork, who was flying along beside them.
“I always like to help anyone in trouble. But I must go now, for my
babies are waiting in the nest for me. I hope you will find the Emerald
City and that Oz will help you.”

“Thank you,” replied Dorothy, and then the kind Stork flew into the air
and was soon out of sight.

They walked along listening to the singing of the brightly colored
birds and looking at the lovely flowers which now became so thick that
the ground was carpeted with them. There were big yellow and white and
blue and purple blossoms, besides great clusters of scarlet poppies,
which were so brilliant in color they almost dazzled Dorothy’s eyes.

“Aren’t they beautiful?” the girl asked, as she breathed in the spicy
scent of the bright flowers.

“I suppose so,” answered the Scarecrow. “When I have brains, I shall
probably like them better.”

“If I only had a heart, I should love them,” added the Tin Woodman.

“I always did like flowers,” said the Lion. “They seem so helpless and
frail. But there are none in the forest so bright as these.”

They now came upon more and more of the big scarlet poppies, and fewer
and fewer of the other flowers; and soon they found themselves in the
midst of a great meadow of poppies. Now it is well known that when
there are many of these flowers together their odor is so powerful that
anyone who breathes it falls asleep, and if the sleeper is not carried
away from the scent of the flowers, he sleeps on and on forever. But
Dorothy did not know this, nor could she get away from the bright red
flowers that were everywhere about; so presently her eyes grew heavy
and she felt she must sit down to rest and to sleep.

But the Tin Woodman would not let her do this.

“We must hurry and get back to the road of yellow brick before dark,”
he said; and the Scarecrow agreed with him. So they kept walking until
Dorothy could stand no longer. Her eyes closed in spite of herself and
she forgot where she was and fell among the poppies, fast asleep.

“What shall we do?” asked the Tin Woodman.

“If we leave her here she will die,” said the Lion. “The smell of the
flowers is killing us all. I myself can scarcely keep my eyes open, and
the dog is asleep already.”

It was true; Toto had fallen down beside his little mistress. But the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, not being made of flesh, were not
troubled by the scent of the flowers.

“Run fast,” said the Scarecrow to the Lion, “and get out of this deadly
flower bed as soon as you can. We will bring the little girl with us,
but if you should fall asleep you are too big to be carried.”

So the Lion aroused himself and bounded forward as fast as he could go.
In a moment he was out of sight.

“Let us make a chair with our hands and carry her,” said the Scarecrow.
So they picked up Toto and put the dog in Dorothy’s lap, and then they
made a chair with their hands for the seat and their arms for the arms
and carried the sleeping girl between them through the flowers.

On and on they walked, and it seemed that the great carpet of deadly
flowers that surrounded them would never end. They followed the bend of
the river, and at last came upon their friend the Lion, lying fast
asleep among the poppies. The flowers had been too strong for the huge
beast and he had given up at last, and fallen only a short distance
from the end of the poppy bed, where the sweet grass spread in
beautiful green fields before them.

“We can do nothing for him,” said the Tin Woodman, sadly; “for he is
much too heavy to lift. We must leave him here to sleep on forever, and
perhaps he will dream that he has found courage at last.”

“I’m sorry,” said the Scarecrow. “The Lion was a very good comrade for
one so cowardly. But let us go on.”

They carried the sleeping girl to a pretty spot beside the river, far
enough from the poppy field to prevent her breathing any more of the
poison of the flowers, and here they laid her gently on the soft grass
and waited for the fresh breeze to waken her.




Chapter IX
The Queen of the Field Mice


“We cannot be far from the road of yellow brick, now,” remarked the
Scarecrow, as he stood beside the girl, “for we have come nearly as far
as the river carried us away.”

The Tin Woodman was about to reply when he heard a low growl, and
turning his head (which worked beautifully on hinges) he saw a strange
beast come bounding over the grass toward them. It was, indeed, a great
yellow Wildcat, and the Woodman thought it must be chasing something,
for its ears were lying close to its head and its mouth was wide open,
showing two rows of ugly teeth, while its red eyes glowed like balls of
fire. As it came nearer the Tin Woodman saw that running before the
beast was a little gray field mouse, and although he had no heart he
knew it was wrong for the Wildcat to try to kill such a pretty,
harmless creature.

So the Woodman raised his axe, and as the Wildcat ran by he gave it a
quick blow that cut the beast’s head clean off from its body, and it
rolled over at his feet in two pieces.

The field mouse, now that it was freed from its enemy, stopped short;
and coming slowly up to the Woodman it said, in a squeaky little voice:

“Oh, thank you! Thank you ever so much for saving my life.”

“Don’t speak of it, I beg of you,” replied the Woodman. “I have no
heart, you know, so I am careful to help all those who may need a
friend, even if it happens to be only a mouse.”

“Only a mouse!” cried the little animal, indignantly. “Why, I am a
Queen—the Queen of all the Field Mice!”

“Oh, indeed,” said the Woodman, making a bow.

“Therefore you have done a great deed, as well as a brave one, in
saving my life,” added the Queen.

At that moment several mice were seen running up as fast as their
little legs could carry them, and when they saw their Queen they
exclaimed:

“Oh, your Majesty, we thought you would be killed! How did you manage
to escape the great Wildcat?” They all bowed so low to the little Queen
that they almost stood upon their heads.

“This funny tin man,” she answered, “killed the Wildcat and saved my
life. So hereafter you must all serve him, and obey his slightest
wish.”

“We will!” cried all the mice, in a shrill chorus. And then they
scampered in all directions, for Toto had awakened from his sleep, and
seeing all these mice around him he gave one bark of delight and jumped
right into the middle of the group. Toto had always loved to chase mice
when he lived in Kansas, and he saw no harm in it.

But the Tin Woodman caught the dog in his arms and held him tight,
while he called to the mice, “Come back! Come back! Toto shall not hurt
you.”

At this the Queen of the Mice stuck her head out from underneath a
clump of grass and asked, in a timid voice, “Are you sure he will not
bite us?”

“I will not let him,” said the Woodman; “so do not be afraid.”

One by one the mice came creeping back, and Toto did not bark again,
although he tried to get out of the Woodman’s arms, and would have
bitten him had he not known very well he was made of tin. Finally one
of the biggest mice spoke.

“Is there anything we can do,” it asked, “to repay you for saving the
life of our Queen?”

“Nothing that I know of,” answered the Woodman; but the Scarecrow, who
had been trying to think, but could not because his head was stuffed
with straw, said, quickly, “Oh, yes; you can save our friend, the
Cowardly Lion, who is asleep in the poppy bed.”

“A Lion!” cried the little Queen. “Why, he would eat us all up.”

“Oh, no,” declared the Scarecrow; “this Lion is a coward.”

“Really?” asked the Mouse.

“He says so himself,” answered the Scarecrow, “and he would never hurt
anyone who is our friend. If you will help us to save him I promise
that he shall treat you all with kindness.”

“Very well,” said the Queen, “we trust you. But what shall we do?”

“Are there many of these mice which call you Queen and are willing to
obey you?”

“Oh, yes; there are thousands,” she replied.

“Then send for them all to come here as soon as possible, and let each
one bring a long piece of string.”

The Queen turned to the mice that attended her and told them to go at
once and get all her people. As soon as they heard her orders they ran
away in every direction as fast as possible.

“Now,” said the Scarecrow to the Tin Woodman, “you must go to those
trees by the riverside and make a truck that will carry the Lion.”

So the Woodman went at once to the trees and began to work; and he soon
made a truck out of the limbs of trees, from which he chopped away all
the leaves and branches. He fastened it together with wooden pegs and
made the four wheels out of short pieces of a big tree trunk. So fast
and so well did he work that by the time the mice began to arrive the
truck was all ready for them.

They came from all directions, and there were thousands of them: big
mice and little mice and middle-sized mice; and each one brought a
piece of string in his mouth. It was about this time that Dorothy woke
from her long sleep and opened her eyes. She was greatly astonished to
find herself lying upon the grass, with thousands of mice standing
around and looking at her timidly. But the Scarecrow told her about
everything, and turning to the dignified little Mouse, he said:

“Permit me to introduce to you her Majesty, the Queen.”

Dorothy nodded gravely and the Queen made a curtsy, after which she
became quite friendly with the little girl.

The Scarecrow and the Woodman now began to fasten the mice to the
truck, using the strings they had brought. One end of a string was tied
around the neck of each mouse and the other end to the truck. Of course
the truck was a thousand times bigger than any of the mice who were to
draw it; but when all the mice had been harnessed, they were able to
pull it quite easily. Even the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman could sit
on it, and were drawn swiftly by their queer little horses to the place
where the Lion lay asleep.

After a great deal of hard work, for the Lion was heavy, they managed
to get him up on the truck. Then the Queen hurriedly gave her people
the order to start, for she feared if the mice stayed among the poppies
too long they also would fall asleep.

At first the little creatures, many though they were, could hardly stir
the heavily loaded truck; but the Woodman and the Scarecrow both pushed
from behind, and they got along better. Soon they rolled the Lion out
of the poppy bed to the green fields, where he could breathe the sweet,
fresh air again, instead of the poisonous scent of the flowers.

Dorothy came to meet them and thanked the little mice warmly for saving
her companion from death. She had grown so fond of the big Lion she was
glad he had been rescued.

Then the mice were unharnessed from the truck and scampered away
through the grass to their homes. The Queen of the Mice was the last to
leave.

“If ever you need us again,” she said, “come out into the field and
call, and we shall hear you and come to your assistance. Good-bye!”

“Good-bye!” they all answered, and away the Queen ran, while Dorothy
held Toto tightly lest he should run after her and frighten her.

After this they sat down beside the Lion until he should awaken; and
the Scarecrow brought Dorothy some fruit from a tree near by, which she
ate for her dinner.




Chapter X
The Guardian of the Gate


It was some time before the Cowardly Lion awakened, for he had lain
among the poppies a long while, breathing in their deadly fragrance;
but when he did open his eyes and roll off the truck he was very glad
to find himself still alive.

“I ran as fast as I could,” he said, sitting down and yawning, “but the
flowers were too strong for me. How did you get me out?”

Then they told him of the field mice, and how they had generously saved
him from death; and the Cowardly Lion laughed, and said:

“I have always thought myself very big and terrible; yet such little
things as flowers came near to killing me, and such small animals as
mice have saved my life. How strange it all is! But, comrades, what
shall we do now?”

“We must journey on until we find the road of yellow brick again,” said
Dorothy, “and then we can keep on to the Emerald City.”

So, the Lion being fully refreshed, and feeling quite himself again,
they all started upon the journey, greatly enjoying the walk through
the soft, fresh grass; and it was not long before they reached the road
of yellow brick and turned again toward the Emerald City where the
Great Oz dwelt.

The road was smooth and well paved, now, and the country about was
beautiful, so that the travelers rejoiced in leaving the forest far
behind, and with it the many dangers they had met in its gloomy shades.
Once more they could see fences built beside the road; but these were
painted green, and when they came to a small house, in which a farmer
evidently lived, that also was painted green. They passed by several of
these houses during the afternoon, and sometimes people came to the
doors and looked at them as if they would like to ask questions; but no
one came near them nor spoke to them because of the great Lion, of
which they were very much afraid. The people were all dressed in
clothing of a lovely emerald-green color and wore peaked hats like
those of the Munchkins.

“This must be the Land of Oz,” said Dorothy, “and we are surely getting
near the Emerald City.”

“Yes,” answered the Scarecrow. “Everything is green here, while in the
country of the Munchkins blue was the favorite color. But the people do
not seem to be as friendly as the Munchkins, and I’m afraid we shall be
unable to find a place to pass the night.”

“I should like something to eat besides fruit,” said the girl, “and I’m
sure Toto is nearly starved. Let us stop at the next house and talk to
the people.”

So, when they came to a good-sized farmhouse, Dorothy walked boldly up
to the door and knocked.

A woman opened it just far enough to look out, and said, “What do you
want, child, and why is that great Lion with you?”

“We wish to pass the night with you, if you will allow us,” answered
Dorothy; “and the Lion is my friend and comrade, and would not hurt you
for the world.”

“Is he tame?” asked the woman, opening the door a little wider.

“Oh, yes,” said the girl, “and he is a great coward, too. He will be
more afraid of you than you are of him.”

“Well,” said the woman, after thinking it over and taking another peep
at the Lion, “if that is the case you may come in, and I will give you
some supper and a place to sleep.”

So they all entered the house, where there were, besides the woman, two
children and a man. The man had hurt his leg, and was lying on the
couch in a corner. They seemed greatly surprised to see so strange a
company, and while the woman was busy laying the table the man asked:

“Where are you all going?”

“To the Emerald City,” said Dorothy, “to see the Great Oz.”

“Oh, indeed!” exclaimed the man. “Are you sure that Oz will see you?”

“Why not?” she replied.

“Why, it is said that he never lets anyone come into his presence. I
have been to the Emerald City many times, and it is a beautiful and
wonderful place; but I have never been permitted to see the Great Oz,
nor do I know of any living person who has seen him.”

“Does he never go out?” asked the Scarecrow.

“Never. He sits day after day in the great Throne Room of his Palace,
and even those who wait upon him do not see him face to face.”

“What is he like?” asked the girl.

“That is hard to tell,” said the man thoughtfully. “You see, Oz is a
Great Wizard, and can take on any form he wishes. So that some say he
looks like a bird; and some say he looks like an elephant; and some say
he looks like a cat. To others he appears as a beautiful fairy, or a
brownie, or in any other form that pleases him. But who the real Oz is,
when he is in his own form, no living person can tell.”

“That is very strange,” said Dorothy, “but we must try, in some way, to
see him, or we shall have made our journey for nothing.”

“Why do you wish to see the terrible Oz?” asked the man.

“I want him to give me some brains,” said the Scarecrow eagerly.

“Oh, Oz could do that easily enough,” declared the man. “He has more
brains than he needs.”

“And I want him to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“That will not trouble him,” continued the man, “for Oz has a large
collection of hearts, of all sizes and shapes.”

“And I want him to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.

“Oz keeps a great pot of courage in his Throne Room,” said the man,
“which he has covered with a golden plate, to keep it from running
over. He will be glad to give you some.”

“And I want him to send me back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.

“Where is Kansas?” asked the man, with surprise.

“I don’t know,” replied Dorothy sorrowfully, “but it is my home, and
I’m sure it’s somewhere.”

“Very likely. Well, Oz can do anything; so I suppose he will find
Kansas for you. But first you must get to see him, and that will be a
hard task; for the Great Wizard does not like to see anyone, and he
usually has his own way. But what do YOU want?” he continued, speaking
to Toto. Toto only wagged his tail; for, strange to say, he could not
speak.

The woman now called to them that supper was ready, so they gathered
around the table and Dorothy ate some delicious porridge and a dish of
scrambled eggs and a plate of nice white bread, and enjoyed her meal.
The Lion ate some of the porridge, but did not care for it, saying it
was made from oats and oats were food for horses, not for lions. The
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ate nothing at all. Toto ate a little of
everything, and was glad to get a good supper again.

The woman now gave Dorothy a bed to sleep in, and Toto lay down beside
her, while the Lion guarded the door of her room so she might not be
disturbed. The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood up in a corner and
kept quiet all night, although of course they could not sleep.

The next morning, as soon as the sun was up, they started on their way,
and soon saw a beautiful green glow in the sky just before them.

“That must be the Emerald City,” said Dorothy.

As they walked on, the green glow became brighter and brighter, and it
seemed that at last they were nearing the end of their travels. Yet it
was afternoon before they came to the great wall that surrounded the
City. It was high and thick and of a bright green color.

In front of them, and at the end of the road of yellow brick, was a big
gate, all studded with emeralds that glittered so in the sun that even
the painted eyes of the Scarecrow were dazzled by their brilliancy.

There was a bell beside the gate, and Dorothy pushed the button and
heard a silvery tinkle sound within. Then the big gate swung slowly
open, and they all passed through and found themselves in a high arched
room, the walls of which glistened with countless emeralds.

Before them stood a little man about the same size as the Munchkins. He
was clothed all in green, from his head to his feet, and even his skin
was of a greenish tint. At his side was a large green box.

When he saw Dorothy and her companions the man asked, “What do you wish
in the Emerald City?”

“We came here to see the Great Oz,” said Dorothy.

The man was so surprised at this answer that he sat down to think it
over.

“It has been many years since anyone asked me to see Oz,” he said,
shaking his head in perplexity. “He is powerful and terrible, and if
you come on an idle or foolish errand to bother the wise reflections of
the Great Wizard, he might be angry and destroy you all in an instant.”

“But it is not a foolish errand, nor an idle one,” replied the
Scarecrow; “it is important. And we have been told that Oz is a good
Wizard.”

“So he is,” said the green man, “and he rules the Emerald City wisely
and well. But to those who are not honest, or who approach him from
curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his
face. I am the Guardian of the Gates, and since you demand to see the
Great Oz I must take you to his Palace. But first you must put on the
spectacles.”

“Why?” asked Dorothy.

“Because if you did not wear spectacles the brightness and glory of the
Emerald City would blind you. Even those who live in the City must wear
spectacles night and day. They are all locked on, for Oz so ordered it
when the City was first built, and I have the only key that will unlock
them.”

He opened the big box, and Dorothy saw that it was filled with
spectacles of every size and shape. All of them had green glasses in
them. The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit
Dorothy and put them over her eyes. There were two golden bands
fastened to them that passed around the back of her head, where they
were locked together by a little key that was at the end of a chain the
Guardian of the Gates wore around his neck. When they were on, Dorothy
could not take them off had she wished, but of course she did not wish
to be blinded by the glare of the Emerald City, so she said nothing.

Then the green man fitted spectacles for the Scarecrow and the Tin
Woodman and the Lion, and even on little Toto; and all were locked fast
with the key.

Then the Guardian of the Gates put on his own glasses and told them he
was ready to show them to the Palace. Taking a big golden key from a
peg on the wall, he opened another gate, and they all followed him
through the portal into the streets of the Emerald City.




Chapter XI
The Wonderful City of Oz


Even with eyes protected by the green spectacles, Dorothy and her
friends were at first dazzled by the brilliancy of the wonderful City.
The streets were lined with beautiful houses all built of green marble
and studded everywhere with sparkling emeralds. They walked over a
pavement of the same green marble, and where the blocks were joined
together were rows of emeralds, set closely, and glittering in the
brightness of the sun. The window panes were of green glass; even the
sky above the City had a green tint, and the rays of the sun were
green.

There were many people—men, women, and children—walking about, and
these were all dressed in green clothes and had greenish skins. They
looked at Dorothy and her strangely assorted company with wondering
eyes, and the children all ran away and hid behind their mothers when
they saw the Lion; but no one spoke to them. Many shops stood in the
street, and Dorothy saw that everything in them was green. Green candy
and green pop-corn were offered for sale, as well as green shoes, green
hats, and green clothes of all sorts. At one place a man was selling
green lemonade, and when the children bought it Dorothy could see that
they paid for it with green pennies.

There seemed to be no horses nor animals of any kind; the men carried
things around in little green carts, which they pushed before them.
Everyone seemed happy and contented and prosperous.

The Guardian of the Gates led them through the streets until they came
to a big building, exactly in the middle of the City, which was the
Palace of Oz, the Great Wizard. There was a soldier before the door,
dressed in a green uniform and wearing a long green beard.

“Here are strangers,” said the Guardian of the Gates to him, “and they
demand to see the Great Oz.”

“Step inside,” answered the soldier, “and I will carry your message to
him.”

So they passed through the Palace Gates and were led into a big room
with a green carpet and lovely green furniture set with emeralds. The
soldier made them all wipe their feet upon a green mat before entering
this room, and when they were seated he said politely:

“Please make yourselves comfortable while I go to the door of the
Throne Room and tell Oz you are here.”

They had to wait a long time before the soldier returned. When, at
last, he came back, Dorothy asked:

“Have you seen Oz?”

“Oh, no,” returned the soldier; “I have never seen him. But I spoke to
him as he sat behind his screen and gave him your message. He said he
will grant you an audience, if you so desire; but each one of you must
enter his presence alone, and he will admit but one each day.
Therefore, as you must remain in the Palace for several days, I will
have you shown to rooms where you may rest in comfort after your
journey.”

“Thank you,” replied the girl; “that is very kind of Oz.”

The soldier now blew upon a green whistle, and at once a young girl,
dressed in a pretty green silk gown, entered the room. She had lovely
green hair and green eyes, and she bowed low before Dorothy as she
said, “Follow me and I will show you your room.”

So Dorothy said good-bye to all her friends except Toto, and taking the
dog in her arms followed the green girl through seven passages and up
three flights of stairs until they came to a room at the front of the
Palace. It was the sweetest little room in the world, with a soft
comfortable bed that had sheets of green silk and a green velvet
counterpane. There was a tiny fountain in the middle of the room, that
shot a spray of green perfume into the air, to fall back into a
beautifully carved green marble basin. Beautiful green flowers stood in
the windows, and there was a shelf with a row of little green books.
When Dorothy had time to open these books she found them full of queer
green pictures that made her laugh, they were so funny.

In a wardrobe were many green dresses, made of silk and satin and
velvet; and all of them fitted Dorothy exactly.

“Make yourself perfectly at home,” said the green girl, “and if you
wish for anything ring the bell. Oz will send for you tomorrow
morning.”

She left Dorothy alone and went back to the others. These she also led
to rooms, and each one of them found himself lodged in a very pleasant
part of the Palace. Of course this politeness was wasted on the
Scarecrow; for when he found himself alone in his room he stood
stupidly in one spot, just within the doorway, to wait till morning. It
would not rest him to lie down, and he could not close his eyes; so he
remained all night staring at a little spider which was weaving its web
in a corner of the room, just as if it were not one of the most
wonderful rooms in the world. The Tin Woodman lay down on his bed from
force of habit, for he remembered when he was made of flesh; but not
being able to sleep, he passed the night moving his joints up and down
to make sure they kept in good working order. The Lion would have
preferred a bed of dried leaves in the forest, and did not like being
shut up in a room; but he had too much sense to let this worry him, so
he sprang upon the bed and rolled himself up like a cat and purred
himself asleep in a minute.

The next morning, after breakfast, the green maiden came to fetch
Dorothy, and she dressed her in one of the prettiest gowns, made of
green brocaded satin. Dorothy put on a green silk apron and tied a
green ribbon around Toto’s neck, and they started for the Throne Room
of the Great Oz.

First they came to a great hall in which were many ladies and gentlemen
of the court, all dressed in rich costumes. These people had nothing to
do but talk to each other, but they always came to wait outside the
Throne Room every morning, although they were never permitted to see
Oz. As Dorothy entered they looked at her curiously, and one of them
whispered:

“Are you really going to look upon the face of Oz the Terrible?”

“Of course,” answered the girl, “if he will see me.”

“Oh, he will see you,” said the soldier who had taken her message to
the Wizard, “although he does not like to have people ask to see him.
Indeed, at first he was angry and said I should send you back where you
came from. Then he asked me what you looked like, and when I mentioned
your silver shoes he was very much interested. At last I told him about
the mark upon your forehead, and he decided he would admit you to his
presence.”

Just then a bell rang, and the green girl said to Dorothy, “That is the
signal. You must go into the Throne Room alone.”

She opened a little door and Dorothy walked boldly through and found
herself in a wonderful place. It was a big, round room with a high
arched roof, and the walls and ceiling and floor were covered with
large emeralds set closely together. In the center of the roof was a
great light, as bright as the sun, which made the emeralds sparkle in a
wonderful manner.

But what interested Dorothy most was the big throne of green marble
that stood in the middle of the room. It was shaped like a chair and
sparkled with gems, as did everything else. In the center of the chair
was an enormous Head, without a body to support it or any arms or legs
whatever. There was no hair upon this head, but it had eyes and a nose
and mouth, and was much bigger than the head of the biggest giant.

As Dorothy gazed upon this in wonder and fear, the eyes turned slowly
and looked at her sharply and steadily. Then the mouth moved, and
Dorothy heard a voice say:

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Who are you, and why do you seek me?”

It was not such an awful voice as she had expected to come from the big
Head; so she took courage and answered:

“I am Dorothy, the Small and Meek. I have come to you for help.”

The eyes looked at her thoughtfully for a full minute. Then said the
voice:

“Where did you get the silver shoes?”

“I got them from the Wicked Witch of the East, when my house fell on
her and killed her,” she replied.

“Where did you get the mark upon your forehead?” continued the voice.

“That is where the Good Witch of the North kissed me when she bade me
good-bye and sent me to you,” said the girl.

Again the eyes looked at her sharply, and they saw she was telling the
truth. Then Oz asked, “What do you wish me to do?”

“Send me back to Kansas, where my Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are,” she
answered earnestly. “I don’t like your country, although it is so
beautiful. And I am sure Aunt Em will be dreadfully worried over my
being away so long.”

The eyes winked three times, and then they turned up to the ceiling and
down to the floor and rolled around so queerly that they seemed to see
every part of the room. And at last they looked at Dorothy again.

“Why should I do this for you?” asked Oz.

“Because you are strong and I am weak; because you are a Great Wizard
and I am only a little girl.”

“But you were strong enough to kill the Wicked Witch of the East,” said
Oz.

“That just happened,” returned Dorothy simply; “I could not help it.”

“Well,” said the Head, “I will give you my answer. You have no right to
expect me to send you back to Kansas unless you do something for me in
return. In this country everyone must pay for everything he gets. If
you wish me to use my magic power to send you home again you must do
something for me first. Help me and I will help you.”

“What must I do?” asked the girl.

“Kill the Wicked Witch of the West,” answered Oz.

“But I cannot!” exclaimed Dorothy, greatly surprised.

“You killed the Witch of the East and you wear the silver shoes, which
bear a powerful charm. There is now but one Wicked Witch left in all
this land, and when you can tell me she is dead I will send you back to
Kansas—but not before.”

The little girl began to weep, she was so much disappointed; and the
eyes winked again and looked upon her anxiously, as if the Great Oz
felt that she could help him if she would.

“I never killed anything, willingly,” she sobbed. “Even if I wanted to,
how could I kill the Wicked Witch? If you, who are Great and Terrible,
cannot kill her yourself, how do you expect me to do it?”

“I do not know,” said the Head; “but that is my answer, and until the
Wicked Witch dies you will not see your uncle and aunt again. Remember
that the Witch is Wicked—tremendously Wicked—and ought to be killed.
Now go, and do not ask to see me again until you have done your task.”

Sorrowfully Dorothy left the Throne Room and went back where the Lion
and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were waiting to hear what Oz had
said to her. “There is no hope for me,” she said sadly, “for Oz will
not send me home until I have killed the Wicked Witch of the West; and
that I can never do.”

Her friends were sorry, but could do nothing to help her; so Dorothy
went to her own room and lay down on the bed and cried herself to
sleep.

The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the
Scarecrow and said:

“Come with me, for Oz has sent for you.”

So the Scarecrow followed him and was admitted into the great Throne
Room, where he saw, sitting in the emerald throne, a most lovely Lady.
She was dressed in green silk gauze and wore upon her flowing green
locks a crown of jewels. Growing from her shoulders were wings,
gorgeous in color and so light that they fluttered if the slightest
breath of air reached them.

When the Scarecrow had bowed, as prettily as his straw stuffing would
let him, before this beautiful creature, she looked upon him sweetly,
and said:

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Who are you, and why do you seek me?”

Now the Scarecrow, who had expected to see the great Head Dorothy had
told him of, was much astonished; but he answered her bravely.

“I am only a Scarecrow, stuffed with straw. Therefore I have no brains,
and I come to you praying that you will put brains in my head instead
of straw, so that I may become as much a man as any other in your
dominions.”

“Why should I do this for you?” asked the Lady.

“Because you are wise and powerful, and no one else can help me,”
answered the Scarecrow.

“I never grant favors without some return,” said Oz; “but this much I
will promise. If you will kill for me the Wicked Witch of the West, I
will bestow upon you a great many brains, and such good brains that you
will be the wisest man in all the Land of Oz.”

“I thought you asked Dorothy to kill the Witch,” said the Scarecrow, in
surprise.

“So I did. I don’t care who kills her. But until she is dead I will not
grant your wish. Now go, and do not seek me again until you have earned
the brains you so greatly desire.”

The Scarecrow went sorrowfully back to his friends and told them what
Oz had said; and Dorothy was surprised to find that the Great Wizard
was not a Head, as she had seen him, but a lovely Lady.

“All the same,” said the Scarecrow, “she needs a heart as much as the
Tin Woodman.”

On the next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the Tin
Woodman and said:

“Oz has sent for you. Follow me.”

So the Tin Woodman followed him and came to the great Throne Room. He
did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he
hoped it would be the lovely Lady. “For,” he said to himself, “if it is
the head, I am sure I shall not be given a heart, since a head has no
heart of its own and therefore cannot feel for me. But if it is the
lovely Lady I shall beg hard for a heart, for all ladies are themselves
said to be kindly hearted.”

But when the Woodman entered the great Throne Room he saw neither the
Head nor the Lady, for Oz had taken the shape of a most terrible Beast.
It was nearly as big as an elephant, and the green throne seemed hardly
strong enough to hold its weight. The Beast had a head like that of a
rhinoceros, only there were five eyes in its face. There were five long
arms growing out of its body, and it also had five long, slim legs.
Thick, woolly hair covered every part of it, and a more
dreadful-looking monster could not be imagined. It was fortunate the
Tin Woodman had no heart at that moment, for it would have beat loud
and fast from terror. But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all
afraid, although he was much disappointed.

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible,” spoke the Beast, in a voice that was
one great roar. “Who are you, and why do you seek me?”

“I am a Woodman, and made of tin. Therefore I have no heart, and cannot
love. I pray you to give me a heart that I may be as other men are.”

“Why should I do this?” demanded the Beast.

“Because I ask it, and you alone can grant my request,” answered the
Woodman.

Oz gave a low growl at this, but said, gruffly: “If you indeed desire a
heart, you must earn it.”

“How?” asked the Woodman.

“Help Dorothy to kill the Wicked Witch of the West,” replied the Beast.
“When the Witch is dead, come to me, and I will then give you the
biggest and kindest and most loving heart in all the Land of Oz.”

So the Tin Woodman was forced to return sorrowfully to his friends and
tell them of the terrible Beast he had seen. They all wondered greatly
at the many forms the Great Wizard could take upon himself, and the
Lion said:

“If he is a Beast when I go to see him, I shall roar my loudest, and so
frighten him that he will grant all I ask. And if he is the lovely
Lady, I shall pretend to spring upon her, and so compel her to do my
bidding. And if he is the great Head, he will be at my mercy; for I
will roll this head all about the room until he promises to give us
what we desire. So be of good cheer, my friends, for all will yet be
well.”

The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers led the Lion to
the great Throne Room and bade him enter the presence of Oz.

The Lion at once passed through the door, and glancing around saw, to
his surprise, that before the throne was a Ball of Fire, so fierce and
glowing he could scarcely bear to gaze upon it. His first thought was
that Oz had by accident caught on fire and was burning up; but when he
tried to go nearer, the heat was so intense that it singed his
whiskers, and he crept back tremblingly to a spot nearer the door.

Then a low, quiet voice came from the Ball of Fire, and these were the
words it spoke:

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Who are you, and why do you seek me?”

And the Lion answered, “I am a Cowardly Lion, afraid of everything. I
came to you to beg that you give me courage, so that in reality I may
become the King of Beasts, as men call me.”

“Why should I give you courage?” demanded Oz.

“Because of all Wizards you are the greatest, and alone have power to
grant my request,” answered the Lion.

The Ball of Fire burned fiercely for a time, and the voice said, “Bring
me proof that the Wicked Witch is dead, and that moment I will give you
courage. But as long as the Witch lives, you must remain a coward.”

The Lion was angry at this speech, but could say nothing in reply, and
while he stood silently gazing at the Ball of Fire it became so
furiously hot that he turned tail and rushed from the room. He was glad
to find his friends waiting for him, and told them of his terrible
interview with the Wizard.

“What shall we do now?” asked Dorothy sadly.

“There is only one thing we can do,” returned the Lion, “and that is to
go to the land of the Winkies, seek out the Wicked Witch, and destroy
her.”

“But suppose we cannot?” said the girl.

“Then I shall never have courage,” declared the Lion.

“And I shall never have brains,” added the Scarecrow.

“And I shall never have a heart,” spoke the Tin Woodman.

“And I shall never see Aunt Em and Uncle Henry,” said Dorothy,
beginning to cry.

“Be careful!” cried the green girl. “The tears will fall on your green
silk gown and spot it.”

So Dorothy dried her eyes and said, “I suppose we must try it; but I am
sure I do not want to kill anybody, even to see Aunt Em again.”

“I will go with you; but I’m too much of a coward to kill the Witch,”
said the Lion.

“I will go too,” declared the Scarecrow; “but I shall not be of much
help to you, I am such a fool.”

“I haven’t the heart to harm even a Witch,” remarked the Tin Woodman;
“but if you go I certainly shall go with you.”

Therefore it was decided to start upon their journey the next morning,
and the Woodman sharpened his axe on a green grindstone and had all his
joints properly oiled. The Scarecrow stuffed himself with fresh straw
and Dorothy put new paint on his eyes that he might see better. The
green girl, who was very kind to them, filled Dorothy’s basket with
good things to eat, and fastened a little bell around Toto’s neck with
a green ribbon.

They went to bed quite early and slept soundly until daylight, when
they were awakened by the crowing of a green cock that lived in the
back yard of the Palace, and the cackling of a hen that had laid a
green egg.




Chapter XII
The Search for the Wicked Witch


The soldier with the green whiskers led them through the streets of the
Emerald City until they reached the room where the Guardian of the
Gates lived. This officer unlocked their spectacles to put them back in
his great box, and then he politely opened the gate for our friends.

“Which road leads to the Wicked Witch of the West?” asked Dorothy.

“There is no road,” answered the Guardian of the Gates. “No one ever
wishes to go that way.”

“How, then, are we to find her?” inquired the girl.

“That will be easy,” replied the man, “for when she knows you are in
the country of the Winkies she will find you, and make you all her
slaves.”

“Perhaps not,” said the Scarecrow, “for we mean to destroy her.”

“Oh, that is different,” said the Guardian of the Gates. “No one has
ever destroyed her before, so I naturally thought she would make slaves
of you, as she has of the rest. But take care; for she is wicked and
fierce, and may not allow you to destroy her. Keep to the West, where
the sun sets, and you cannot fail to find her.”

They thanked him and bade him good-bye, and turned toward the West,
walking over fields of soft grass dotted here and there with daisies
and buttercups. Dorothy still wore the pretty silk dress she had put on
in the palace, but now, to her surprise, she found it was no longer
green, but pure white. The ribbon around Toto’s neck had also lost its
green color and was as white as Dorothy’s dress.

The Emerald City was soon left far behind. As they advanced the ground
became rougher and hillier, for there were no farms nor houses in this
country of the West, and the ground was untilled.

In the afternoon the sun shone hot in their faces, for there were no
trees to offer them shade; so that before night Dorothy and Toto and
the Lion were tired, and lay down upon the grass and fell asleep, with
the Woodman and the Scarecrow keeping watch.

Now the Wicked Witch of the West had but one eye, yet that was as
powerful as a telescope, and could see everywhere. So, as she sat in
the door of her castle, she happened to look around and saw Dorothy
lying asleep, with her friends all about her. They were a long distance
off, but the Wicked Witch was angry to find them in her country; so she
blew upon a silver whistle that hung around her neck.

At once there came running to her from all directions a pack of great
wolves. They had long legs and fierce eyes and sharp teeth.

“Go to those people,” said the Witch, “and tear them to pieces.”

“Are you not going to make them your slaves?” asked the leader of the
wolves.

“No,” she answered, “one is of tin, and one of straw; one is a girl and
another a Lion. None of them is fit to work, so you may tear them into
small pieces.”

“Very well,” said the wolf, and he dashed away at full speed, followed
by the others.

It was lucky the Scarecrow and the Woodman were wide awake and heard
the wolves coming.

“This is my fight,” said the Woodman, “so get behind me and I will meet
them as they come.”

He seized his axe, which he had made very sharp, and as the leader of
the wolves came on the Tin Woodman swung his arm and chopped the wolf’s
head from its body, so that it immediately died. As soon as he could
raise his axe another wolf came up, and he also fell under the sharp
edge of the Tin Woodman’s weapon. There were forty wolves, and forty
times a wolf was killed, so that at last they all lay dead in a heap
before the Woodman.

Then he put down his axe and sat beside the Scarecrow, who said, “It
was a good fight, friend.”

They waited until Dorothy awoke the next morning. The little girl was
quite frightened when she saw the great pile of shaggy wolves, but the
Tin Woodman told her all. She thanked him for saving them and sat down
to breakfast, after which they started again upon their journey.

Now this same morning the Wicked Witch came to the door of her castle
and looked out with her one eye that could see far off. She saw all her
wolves lying dead, and the strangers still traveling through her
country. This made her angrier than before, and she blew her silver
whistle twice.

Straightway a great flock of wild crows came flying toward her, enough
to darken the sky.

And the Wicked Witch said to the King Crow, “Fly at once to the
strangers; peck out their eyes and tear them to pieces.”

The wild crows flew in one great flock toward Dorothy and her
companions. When the little girl saw them coming she was afraid.

But the Scarecrow said, “This is my battle, so lie down beside me and
you will not be harmed.”

So they all lay upon the ground except the Scarecrow, and he stood up
and stretched out his arms. And when the crows saw him they were
frightened, as these birds always are by scarecrows, and did not dare
to come any nearer. But the King Crow said:

“It is only a stuffed man. I will peck his eyes out.”

The King Crow flew at the Scarecrow, who caught it by the head and
twisted its neck until it died. And then another crow flew at him, and
the Scarecrow twisted its neck also. There were forty crows, and forty
times the Scarecrow twisted a neck, until at last all were lying dead
beside him. Then he called to his companions to rise, and again they
went upon their journey.

When the Wicked Witch looked out again and saw all her crows lying in a
heap, she got into a terrible rage, and blew three times upon her
silver whistle.

Forthwith there was heard a great buzzing in the air, and a swarm of
black bees came flying toward her.

“Go to the strangers and sting them to death!” commanded the Witch, and
the bees turned and flew rapidly until they came to where Dorothy and
her friends were walking. But the Woodman had seen them coming, and the
Scarecrow had decided what to do.

“Take out my straw and scatter it over the little girl and the dog and
the Lion,” he said to the Woodman, “and the bees cannot sting them.”
This the Woodman did, and as Dorothy lay close beside the Lion and held
Toto in her arms, the straw covered them entirely.

The bees came and found no one but the Woodman to sting, so they flew
at him and broke off all their stings against the tin, without hurting
the Woodman at all. And as bees cannot live when their stings are
broken that was the end of the black bees, and they lay scattered thick
about the Woodman, like little heaps of fine coal.

Then Dorothy and the Lion got up, and the girl helped the Tin Woodman
put the straw back into the Scarecrow again, until he was as good as
ever. So they started upon their journey once more.

The Wicked Witch was so angry when she saw her black bees in little
heaps like fine coal that she stamped her foot and tore her hair and
gnashed her teeth. And then she called a dozen of her slaves, who were
the Winkies, and gave them sharp spears, telling them to go to the
strangers and destroy them.

The Winkies were not a brave people, but they had to do as they were
told. So they marched away until they came near to Dorothy. Then the
Lion gave a great roar and sprang towards them, and the poor Winkies
were so frightened that they ran back as fast as they could.

When they returned to the castle the Wicked Witch beat them well with a
strap, and sent them back to their work, after which she sat down to
think what she should do next. She could not understand how all her
plans to destroy these strangers had failed; but she was a powerful
Witch, as well as a wicked one, and she soon made up her mind how to
act.

There was, in her cupboard, a Golden Cap, with a circle of diamonds and
rubies running round it. This Golden Cap had a charm. Whoever owned it
could call three times upon the Winged Monkeys, who would obey any
order they were given. But no person could command these strange
creatures more than three times. Twice already the Wicked Witch had
used the charm of the Cap. Once was when she had made the Winkies her
slaves, and set herself to rule over their country. The Winged Monkeys
had helped her do this. The second time was when she had fought against
the Great Oz himself, and driven him out of the land of the West. The
Winged Monkeys had also helped her in doing this. Only once more could
she use this Golden Cap, for which reason she did not like to do so
until all her other powers were exhausted. But now that her fierce
wolves and her wild crows and her stinging bees were gone, and her
slaves had been scared away by the Cowardly Lion, she saw there was
only one way left to destroy Dorothy and her friends.

So the Wicked Witch took the Golden Cap from her cupboard and placed it
upon her head. Then she stood upon her left foot and said, slowly:

“Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!”

Next she stood upon her right foot and said:

“Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!”

After this she stood upon both feet and cried in a loud voice:

“Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!”

Now the charm began to work. The sky was darkened, and a low rumbling
sound was heard in the air. There was a rushing of many wings, a great
chattering and laughing, and the sun came out of the dark sky to show
the Wicked Witch surrounded by a crowd of monkeys, each with a pair of
immense and powerful wings on his shoulders.

One, much bigger than the others, seemed to be their leader. He flew
close to the Witch and said, “You have called us for the third and last
time. What do you command?”

“Go to the strangers who are within my land and destroy them all except
the Lion,” said the Wicked Witch. “Bring that beast to me, for I have a
mind to harness him like a horse, and make him work.”

“Your commands shall be obeyed,” said the leader. Then, with a great
deal of chattering and noise, the Winged Monkeys flew away to the place
where Dorothy and her friends were walking.

Some of the Monkeys seized the Tin Woodman and carried him through the
air until they were over a country thickly covered with sharp rocks.
Here they dropped the poor Woodman, who fell a great distance to the
rocks, where he lay so battered and dented that he could neither move
nor groan.

Others of the Monkeys caught the Scarecrow, and with their long fingers
pulled all of the straw out of his clothes and head. They made his hat
and boots and clothes into a small bundle and threw it into the top
branches of a tall tree.

The remaining Monkeys threw pieces of stout rope around the Lion and
wound many coils about his body and head and legs, until he was unable
to bite or scratch or struggle in any way. Then they lifted him up and
flew away with him to the Witch’s castle, where he was placed in a
small yard with a high iron fence around it, so that he could not
escape.

But Dorothy they did not harm at all. She stood, with Toto in her arms,
watching the sad fate of her comrades and thinking it would soon be her
turn. The leader of the Winged Monkeys flew up to her, his long, hairy
arms stretched out and his ugly face grinning terribly; but he saw the
mark of the Good Witch’s kiss upon her forehead and stopped short,
motioning the others not to touch her.

“We dare not harm this little girl,” he said to them, “for she is
protected by the Power of Good, and that is greater than the Power of
Evil. All we can do is to carry her to the castle of the Wicked Witch
and leave her there.”

So, carefully and gently, they lifted Dorothy in their arms and carried
her swiftly through the air until they came to the castle, where they
set her down upon the front doorstep. Then the leader said to the
Witch:

“We have obeyed you as far as we were able. The Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow are destroyed, and the Lion is tied up in your yard. The
little girl we dare not harm, nor the dog she carries in her arms. Your
power over our band is now ended, and you will never see us again.”

Then all the Winged Monkeys, with much laughing and chattering and
noise, flew into the air and were soon out of sight.

The Wicked Witch was both surprised and worried when she saw the mark
on Dorothy’s forehead, for she knew well that neither the Winged
Monkeys nor she, herself, dare hurt the girl in any way. She looked
down at Dorothy’s feet, and seeing the Silver Shoes, began to tremble
with fear, for she knew what a powerful charm belonged to them. At
first the Witch was tempted to run away from Dorothy; but she happened
to look into the child’s eyes and saw how simple the soul behind them
was, and that the little girl did not know of the wonderful power the
Silver Shoes gave her. So the Wicked Witch laughed to herself, and
thought, “I can still make her my slave, for she does not know how to
use her power.” Then she said to Dorothy, harshly and severely:

“Come with me; and see that you mind everything I tell you, for if you
do not I will make an end of you, as I did of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow.”

Dorothy followed her through many of the beautiful rooms in her castle
until they came to the kitchen, where the Witch bade her clean the pots
and kettles and sweep the floor and keep the fire fed with wood.

Dorothy went to work meekly, with her mind made up to work as hard as
she could; for she was glad the Wicked Witch had decided not to kill
her.

With Dorothy hard at work, the Witch thought she would go into the
courtyard and harness the Cowardly Lion like a horse; it would amuse
her, she was sure, to make him draw her chariot whenever she wished to
go to drive. But as she opened the gate the Lion gave a loud roar and
bounded at her so fiercely that the Witch was afraid, and ran out and
shut the gate again.

“If I cannot harness you,” said the Witch to the Lion, speaking through
the bars of the gate, “I can starve you. You shall have nothing to eat
until you do as I wish.”

So after that she took no food to the imprisoned Lion; but every day
she came to the gate at noon and asked, “Are you ready to be harnessed
like a horse?”

And the Lion would answer, “No. If you come in this yard, I will bite
you.”

The reason the Lion did not have to do as the Witch wished was that
every night, while the woman was asleep, Dorothy carried him food from
the cupboard. After he had eaten he would lie down on his bed of straw,
and Dorothy would lie beside him and put her head on his soft, shaggy
mane, while they talked of their troubles and tried to plan some way to
escape. But they could find no way to get out of the castle, for it was
constantly guarded by the yellow Winkies, who were the slaves of the
Wicked Witch and too afraid of her not to do as she told them.

The girl had to work hard during the day, and often the Witch
threatened to beat her with the same old umbrella she always carried in
her hand. But, in truth, she did not dare to strike Dorothy, because of
the mark upon her forehead. The child did not know this, and was full
of fear for herself and Toto. Once the Witch struck Toto a blow with
her umbrella and the brave little dog flew at her and bit her leg in
return. The Witch did not bleed where she was bitten, for she was so
wicked that the blood in her had dried up many years before.

Dorothy’s life became very sad as she grew to understand that it would
be harder than ever to get back to Kansas and Aunt Em again. Sometimes
she would cry bitterly for hours, with Toto sitting at her feet and
looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for
his little mistress. Toto did not really care whether he was in Kansas
or the Land of Oz so long as Dorothy was with him; but he knew the
little girl was unhappy, and that made him unhappy too.

Now the Wicked Witch had a great longing to have for her own the Silver
Shoes which the girl always wore. Her bees and her crows and her wolves
were lying in heaps and drying up, and she had used up all the power of
the Golden Cap; but if she could only get hold of the Silver Shoes,
they would give her more power than all the other things she had lost.
She watched Dorothy carefully, to see if she ever took off her shoes,
thinking she might steal them. But the child was so proud of her pretty
shoes that she never took them off except at night and when she took
her bath. The Witch was too much afraid of the dark to dare go in
Dorothy’s room at night to take the shoes, and her dread of water was
greater than her fear of the dark, so she never came near when Dorothy
was bathing. Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor ever let
water touch her in any way.

But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a
trick that would give her what she wanted. She placed a bar of iron in
the middle of the kitchen floor, and then by her magic arts made the
iron invisible to human eyes. So that when Dorothy walked across the
floor she stumbled over the bar, not being able to see it, and fell at
full length. She was not much hurt, but in her fall one of the Silver
Shoes came off; and before she could reach it, the Witch had snatched
it away and put it on her own skinny foot.

The wicked woman was greatly pleased with the success of her trick, for
as long as she had one of the shoes she owned half the power of their
charm, and Dorothy could not use it against her, even had she known how
to do so.

The little girl, seeing she had lost one of her pretty shoes, grew
angry, and said to the Witch, “Give me back my shoe!”

“I will not,” retorted the Witch, “for it is now my shoe, and not
yours.”

“You are a wicked creature!” cried Dorothy. “You have no right to take
my shoe from me.”

“I shall keep it, just the same,” said the Witch, laughing at her, “and
someday I shall get the other one from you, too.”

This made Dorothy so very angry that she picked up the bucket of water
that stood near and dashed it over the Witch, wetting her from head to
foot.

Instantly the wicked woman gave a loud cry of fear, and then, as
Dorothy looked at her in wonder, the Witch began to shrink and fall
away.

“See what you have done!” she screamed. “In a minute I shall melt
away.”

“I’m very sorry, indeed,” said Dorothy, who was truly frightened to see
the Witch actually melting away like brown sugar before her very eyes.

“Didn’t you know water would be the end of me?” asked the Witch, in a
wailing, despairing voice.

“Of course not,” answered Dorothy. “How should I?”

“Well, in a few minutes I shall be all melted, and you will have the
castle to yourself. I have been wicked in my day, but I never thought a
little girl like you would ever be able to melt me and end my wicked
deeds. Look out—here I go!”

With these words the Witch fell down in a brown, melted, shapeless mass
and began to spread over the clean boards of the kitchen floor. Seeing
that she had really melted away to nothing, Dorothy drew another bucket
of water and threw it over the mess. She then swept it all out the
door. After picking out the silver shoe, which was all that was left of
the old woman, she cleaned and dried it with a cloth, and put it on her
foot again. Then, being at last free to do as she chose, she ran out to
the courtyard to tell the Lion that the Wicked Witch of the West had
come to an end, and that they were no longer prisoners in a strange
land.




Chapter XIII
The Rescue


The Cowardly Lion was much pleased to hear that the Wicked Witch had
been melted by a bucket of water, and Dorothy at once unlocked the gate
of his prison and set him free. They went in together to the castle,
where Dorothy’s first act was to call all the Winkies together and tell
them that they were no longer slaves.

There was great rejoicing among the yellow Winkies, for they had been
made to work hard during many years for the Wicked Witch, who had
always treated them with great cruelty. They kept this day as a
holiday, then and ever after, and spent the time in feasting and
dancing.

“If our friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, were only with us,”
said the Lion, “I should be quite happy.”

“Don’t you suppose we could rescue them?” asked the girl anxiously.

“We can try,” answered the Lion.

So they called the yellow Winkies and asked them if they would help to
rescue their friends, and the Winkies said that they would be delighted
to do all in their power for Dorothy, who had set them free from
bondage. So she chose a number of the Winkies who looked as if they
knew the most, and they all started away. They traveled that day and
part of the next until they came to the rocky plain where the Tin
Woodman lay, all battered and bent. His axe was near him, but the blade
was rusted and the handle broken off short.

The Winkies lifted him tenderly in their arms, and carried him back to
the Yellow Castle again, Dorothy shedding a few tears by the way at the
sad plight of her old friend, and the Lion looking sober and sorry.
When they reached the castle Dorothy said to the Winkies:

“Are any of your people tinsmiths?”

“Oh, yes. Some of us are very good tinsmiths,” they told her.

“Then bring them to me,” she said. And when the tinsmiths came,
bringing with them all their tools in baskets, she inquired, “Can you
straighten out those dents in the Tin Woodman, and bend him back into
shape again, and solder him together where he is broken?”

The tinsmiths looked the Woodman over carefully and then answered that
they thought they could mend him so he would be as good as ever. So
they set to work in one of the big yellow rooms of the castle and
worked for three days and four nights, hammering and twisting and
bending and soldering and polishing and pounding at the legs and body
and head of the Tin Woodman, until at last he was straightened out into
his old form, and his joints worked as well as ever. To be sure, there
were several patches on him, but the tinsmiths did a good job, and as
the Woodman was not a vain man he did not mind the patches at all.

When, at last, he walked into Dorothy’s room and thanked her for
rescuing him, he was so pleased that he wept tears of joy, and Dorothy
had to wipe every tear carefully from his face with her apron, so his
joints would not be rusted. At the same time her own tears fell thick
and fast at the joy of meeting her old friend again, and these tears
did not need to be wiped away. As for the Lion, he wiped his eyes so
often with the tip of his tail that it became quite wet, and he was
obliged to go out into the courtyard and hold it in the sun till it
dried.

“If we only had the Scarecrow with us again,” said the Tin Woodman,
when Dorothy had finished telling him everything that had happened, “I
should be quite happy.”

“We must try to find him,” said the girl.

So she called the Winkies to help her, and they walked all that day and
part of the next until they came to the tall tree in the branches of
which the Winged Monkeys had tossed the Scarecrow’s clothes.

It was a very tall tree, and the trunk was so smooth that no one could
climb it; but the Woodman said at once, “I’ll chop it down, and then we
can get the Scarecrow’s clothes.”

Now while the tinsmiths had been at work mending the Woodman himself,
another of the Winkies, who was a goldsmith, had made an axe-handle of
solid gold and fitted it to the Woodman’s axe, instead of the old
broken handle. Others polished the blade until all the rust was removed
and it glistened like burnished silver.

As soon as he had spoken, the Tin Woodman began to chop, and in a short
time the tree fell over with a crash, whereupon the Scarecrow’s clothes
fell out of the branches and rolled off on the ground.

Dorothy picked them up and had the Winkies carry them back to the
castle, where they were stuffed with nice, clean straw; and behold!
here was the Scarecrow, as good as ever, thanking them over and over
again for saving him.

Now that they were reunited, Dorothy and her friends spent a few happy
days at the Yellow Castle, where they found everything they needed to
make them comfortable.

But one day the girl thought of Aunt Em, and said, “We must go back to
Oz, and claim his promise.”

“Yes,” said the Woodman, “at last I shall get my heart.”

“And I shall get my brains,” added the Scarecrow joyfully.

“And I shall get my courage,” said the Lion thoughtfully.

“And I shall get back to Kansas,” cried Dorothy, clapping her hands.
“Oh, let us start for the Emerald City tomorrow!”

This they decided to do. The next day they called the Winkies together
and bade them good-bye. The Winkies were sorry to have them go, and
they had grown so fond of the Tin Woodman that they begged him to stay
and rule over them and the Yellow Land of the West. Finding they were
determined to go, the Winkies gave Toto and the Lion each a golden
collar; and to Dorothy they presented a beautiful bracelet studded with
diamonds; and to the Scarecrow they gave a gold-headed walking stick,
to keep him from stumbling; and to the Tin Woodman they offered a
silver oil-can, inlaid with gold and set with precious jewels.

Every one of the travelers made the Winkies a pretty speech in return,
and all shook hands with them until their arms ached.

Dorothy went to the Witch’s cupboard to fill her basket with food for
the journey, and there she saw the Golden Cap. She tried it on her own
head and found that it fitted her exactly. She did not know anything
about the charm of the Golden Cap, but she saw that it was pretty, so
she made up her mind to wear it and carry her sunbonnet in the basket.

Then, being prepared for the journey, they all started for the Emerald
City; and the Winkies gave them three cheers and many good wishes to
carry with them.




Chapter XIV
The Winged Monkeys


You will remember there was no road—not even a pathway—between the
castle of the Wicked Witch and the Emerald City. When the four
travelers went in search of the Witch she had seen them coming, and so
sent the Winged Monkeys to bring them to her. It was much harder to
find their way back through the big fields of buttercups and yellow
daisies than it was being carried. They knew, of course, they must go
straight east, toward the rising sun; and they started off in the right
way. But at noon, when the sun was over their heads, they did not know
which was east and which was west, and that was the reason they were
lost in the great fields. They kept on walking, however, and at night
the moon came out and shone brightly. So they lay down among the sweet
smelling yellow flowers and slept soundly until morning—all but the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.

The next morning the sun was behind a cloud, but they started on, as if
they were quite sure which way they were going.

“If we walk far enough,” said Dorothy, “I am sure we shall sometime
come to some place.”

But day by day passed away, and they still saw nothing before them but
the scarlet fields. The Scarecrow began to grumble a bit.

“We have surely lost our way,” he said, “and unless we find it again in
time to reach the Emerald City, I shall never get my brains.”

“Nor I my heart,” declared the Tin Woodman. “It seems to me I can
scarcely wait till I get to Oz, and you must admit this is a very long
journey.”

“You see,” said the Cowardly Lion, with a whimper, “I haven’t the
courage to keep tramping forever, without getting anywhere at all.”

Then Dorothy lost heart. She sat down on the grass and looked at her
companions, and they sat down and looked at her, and Toto found that
for the first time in his life he was too tired to chase a butterfly
that flew past his head. So he put out his tongue and panted and looked
at Dorothy as if to ask what they should do next.

“Suppose we call the field mice,” she suggested. “They could probably
tell us the way to the Emerald City.”

“To be sure they could,” cried the Scarecrow. “Why didn’t we think of
that before?”

Dorothy blew the little whistle she had always carried about her neck
since the Queen of the Mice had given it to her. In a few minutes they
heard the pattering of tiny feet, and many of the small gray mice came
running up to her. Among them was the Queen herself, who asked, in her
squeaky little voice:

“What can I do for my friends?”

“We have lost our way,” said Dorothy. “Can you tell us where the
Emerald City is?”

“Certainly,” answered the Queen; “but it is a great way off, for you
have had it at your backs all this time.” Then she noticed Dorothy’s
Golden Cap, and said, “Why don’t you use the charm of the Cap, and call
the Winged Monkeys to you? They will carry you to the City of Oz in
less than an hour.”

“I didn’t know there was a charm,” answered Dorothy, in surprise. “What
is it?”

“It is written inside the Golden Cap,” replied the Queen of the Mice.
“But if you are going to call the Winged Monkeys we must run away, for
they are full of mischief and think it great fun to plague us.”

“Won’t they hurt me?” asked the girl anxiously.

“Oh, no. They must obey the wearer of the Cap. Good-bye!” And she
scampered out of sight, with all the mice hurrying after her.

Dorothy looked inside the Golden Cap and saw some words written upon
the lining. These, she thought, must be the charm, so she read the
directions carefully and put the Cap upon her head.

“Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!” she said, standing on her left foot.

“What did you say?” asked the Scarecrow, who did not know what she was
doing.

“Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!” Dorothy went on, standing this time on her
right foot.

“Hello!” replied the Tin Woodman calmly.

“Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!” said Dorothy, who was now standing on both feet.
This ended the saying of the charm, and they heard a great chattering
and flapping of wings, as the band of Winged Monkeys flew up to them.

The King bowed low before Dorothy, and asked, “What is your command?”

“We wish to go to the Emerald City,” said the child, “and we have lost
our way.”

“We will carry you,” replied the King, and no sooner had he spoken than
two of the Monkeys caught Dorothy in their arms and flew away with her.
Others took the Scarecrow and the Woodman and the Lion, and one little
Monkey seized Toto and flew after them, although the dog tried hard to
bite him.

The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were rather frightened at first, for
they remembered how badly the Winged Monkeys had treated them before;
but they saw that no harm was intended, so they rode through the air
quite cheerfully, and had a fine time looking at the pretty gardens and
woods far below them.

Dorothy found herself riding easily between two of the biggest Monkeys,
one of them the King himself. They had made a chair of their hands and
were careful not to hurt her.

“Why do you have to obey the charm of the Golden Cap?” she asked.

“That is a long story,” answered the King, with a winged laugh; “but as
we have a long journey before us, I will pass the time by telling you
about it, if you wish.”

“I shall be glad to hear it,” she replied.

“Once,” began the leader, “we were a free people, living happily in the
great forest, flying from tree to tree, eating nuts and fruit, and
doing just as we pleased without calling anybody master. Perhaps some
of us were rather too full of mischief at times, flying down to pull
the tails of the animals that had no wings, chasing birds, and throwing
nuts at the people who walked in the forest. But we were careless and
happy and full of fun, and enjoyed every minute of the day. This was
many years ago, long before Oz came out of the clouds to rule over this
land.

“There lived here then, away at the North, a beautiful princess, who
was also a powerful sorceress. All her magic was used to help the
people, and she was never known to hurt anyone who was good. Her name
was Gayelette, and she lived in a handsome palace built from great
blocks of ruby. Everyone loved her, but her greatest sorrow was that
she could find no one to love in return, since all the men were much
too stupid and ugly to mate with one so beautiful and wise. At last,
however, she found a boy who was handsome and manly and wise beyond his
years. Gayelette made up her mind that when he grew to be a man she
would make him her husband, so she took him to her ruby palace and used
all her magic powers to make him as strong and good and lovely as any
woman could wish. When he grew to manhood, Quelala, as he was called,
was said to be the best and wisest man in all the land, while his manly
beauty was so great that Gayelette loved him dearly, and hastened to
make everything ready for the wedding.

“My grandfather was at that time the King of the Winged Monkeys which
lived in the forest near Gayelette’s palace, and the old fellow loved a
joke better than a good dinner. One day, just before the wedding, my
grandfather was flying out with his band when he saw Quelala walking
beside the river. He was dressed in a rich costume of pink silk and
purple velvet, and my grandfather thought he would see what he could
do. At his word the band flew down and seized Quelala, carried him in
their arms until they were over the middle of the river, and then
dropped him into the water.

“‘Swim out, my fine fellow,’ cried my grandfather, ‘and see if the
water has spotted your clothes.’ Quelala was much too wise not to swim,
and he was not in the least spoiled by all his good fortune. He
laughed, when he came to the top of the water, and swam in to shore.
But when Gayelette came running out to him she found his silks and
velvet all ruined by the river.

“The princess was angry, and she knew, of course, who did it. She had
all the Winged Monkeys brought before her, and she said at first that
their wings should be tied and they should be treated as they had
treated Quelala, and dropped in the river. But my grandfather pleaded
hard, for he knew the Monkeys would drown in the river with their wings
tied, and Quelala said a kind word for them also; so that Gayelette
finally spared them, on condition that the Winged Monkeys should ever
after do three times the bidding of the owner of the Golden Cap. This
Cap had been made for a wedding present to Quelala, and it is said to
have cost the princess half her kingdom. Of course my grandfather and
all the other Monkeys at once agreed to the condition, and that is how
it happens that we are three times the slaves of the owner of the
Golden Cap, whosoever he may be.”

“And what became of them?” asked Dorothy, who had been greatly
interested in the story.

“Quelala being the first owner of the Golden Cap,” replied the Monkey,
“he was the first to lay his wishes upon us. As his bride could not
bear the sight of us, he called us all to him in the forest after he
had married her and ordered us always to keep where she could never
again set eyes on a Winged Monkey, which we were glad to do, for we
were all afraid of her.

“This was all we ever had to do until the Golden Cap fell into the
hands of the Wicked Witch of the West, who made us enslave the Winkies,
and afterward drive Oz himself out of the Land of the West. Now the
Golden Cap is yours, and three times you have the right to lay your
wishes upon us.”

As the Monkey King finished his story Dorothy looked down and saw the
green, shining walls of the Emerald City before them. She wondered at
the rapid flight of the Monkeys, but was glad the journey was over. The
strange creatures set the travelers down carefully before the gate of
the City, the King bowed low to Dorothy, and then flew swiftly away,
followed by all his band.

“That was a good ride,” said the little girl.

“Yes, and a quick way out of our troubles,” replied the Lion. “How
lucky it was you brought away that wonderful Cap!”




Chapter XV
The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible


The four travelers walked up to the great gate of Emerald City and rang
the bell. After ringing several times, it was opened by the same
Guardian of the Gates they had met before.

“What! are you back again?” he asked, in surprise.

“Do you not see us?” answered the Scarecrow.

“But I thought you had gone to visit the Wicked Witch of the West.”

“We did visit her,” said the Scarecrow.

“And she let you go again?” asked the man, in wonder.

“She could not help it, for she is melted,” explained the Scarecrow.

“Melted! Well, that is good news, indeed,” said the man. “Who melted
her?”

“It was Dorothy,” said the Lion gravely.

“Good gracious!” exclaimed the man, and he bowed very low indeed before
her.

Then he led them into his little room and locked the spectacles from
the great box on all their eyes, just as he had done before. Afterward
they passed on through the gate into the Emerald City. When the people
heard from the Guardian of the Gates that Dorothy had melted the Wicked
Witch of the West, they all gathered around the travelers and followed
them in a great crowd to the Palace of Oz.

The soldier with the green whiskers was still on guard before the door,
but he let them in at once, and they were again met by the beautiful
green girl, who showed each of them to their old rooms at once, so they
might rest until the Great Oz was ready to receive them.

The soldier had the news carried straight to Oz that Dorothy and the
other travelers had come back again, after destroying the Wicked Witch;
but Oz made no reply. They thought the Great Wizard would send for them
at once, but he did not. They had no word from him the next day, nor
the next, nor the next. The waiting was tiresome and wearing, and at
last they grew vexed that Oz should treat them in so poor a fashion,
after sending them to undergo hardships and slavery. So the Scarecrow
at last asked the green girl to take another message to Oz, saying if
he did not let them in to see him at once they would call the Winged
Monkeys to help them, and find out whether he kept his promises or not.
When the Wizard was given this message he was so frightened that he
sent word for them to come to the Throne Room at four minutes after
nine o’clock the next morning. He had once met the Winged Monkeys in
the Land of the West, and he did not wish to meet them again.

The four travelers passed a sleepless night, each thinking of the gift
Oz had promised to bestow on him. Dorothy fell asleep only once, and
then she dreamed she was in Kansas, where Aunt Em was telling her how
glad she was to have her little girl at home again.

Promptly at nine o’clock the next morning the green-whiskered soldier
came to them, and four minutes later they all went into the Throne Room
of the Great Oz.

Of course each one of them expected to see the Wizard in the shape he
had taken before, and all were greatly surprised when they looked about
and saw no one at all in the room. They kept close to the door and
closer to one another, for the stillness of the empty room was more
dreadful than any of the forms they had seen Oz take.

Presently they heard a solemn Voice, that seemed to come from somewhere
near the top of the great dome, and it said:

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Why do you seek me?”

They looked again in every part of the room, and then, seeing no one,
Dorothy asked, “Where are you?”

“I am everywhere,” answered the Voice, “but to the eyes of common
mortals I am invisible. I will now seat myself upon my throne, that you
may converse with me.” Indeed, the Voice seemed just then to come
straight from the throne itself; so they walked toward it and stood in
a row while Dorothy said:

“We have come to claim our promise, O Oz.”

“What promise?” asked Oz.

“You promised to send me back to Kansas when the Wicked Witch was
destroyed,” said the girl.

“And you promised to give me brains,” said the Scarecrow.

“And you promised to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

“And you promised to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.

“Is the Wicked Witch really destroyed?” asked the Voice, and Dorothy
thought it trembled a little.

“Yes,” she answered, “I melted her with a bucket of water.”

“Dear me,” said the Voice, “how sudden! Well, come to me tomorrow, for
I must have time to think it over.”

“You’ve had plenty of time already,” said the Tin Woodman angrily.

“We shan’t wait a day longer,” said the Scarecrow.

“You must keep your promises to us!” exclaimed Dorothy.

The Lion thought it might be as well to frighten the Wizard, so he gave
a large, loud roar, which was so fierce and dreadful that Toto jumped
away from him in alarm and tipped over the screen that stood in a
corner. As it fell with a crash they looked that way, and the next
moment all of them were filled with wonder. For they saw, standing in
just the spot the screen had hidden, a little old man, with a bald head
and a wrinkled face, who seemed to be as much surprised as they were.
The Tin Woodman, raising his axe, rushed toward the little man and
cried out, “Who are you?”

“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible,” said the little man, in a trembling
voice. “But don’t strike me—please don’t—and I’ll do anything you want
me to.”

Our friends looked at him in surprise and dismay.

“I thought Oz was a great Head,” said Dorothy.

“And I thought Oz was a lovely Lady,” said the Scarecrow.

“And I thought Oz was a terrible Beast,” said the Tin Woodman.

“And I thought Oz was a Ball of Fire,” exclaimed the Lion.

“No, you are all wrong,” said the little man meekly. “I have been
making believe.”

“Making believe!” cried Dorothy. “Are you not a Great Wizard?”

“Hush, my dear,” he said. “Don’t speak so loud, or you will be
overheard—and I should be ruined. I’m supposed to be a Great Wizard.”

“And aren’t you?” she asked.

“Not a bit of it, my dear; I’m just a common man.”

“You’re more than that,” said the Scarecrow, in a grieved tone; “you’re
a humbug.”

“Exactly so!” declared the little man, rubbing his hands together as if
it pleased him. “I am a humbug.”

“But this is terrible,” said the Tin Woodman. “How shall I ever get my
heart?”

“Or I my courage?” asked the Lion.

“Or I my brains?” wailed the Scarecrow, wiping the tears from his eyes
with his coat sleeve.

“My dear friends,” said Oz, “I pray you not to speak of these little
things. Think of me, and the terrible trouble I’m in at being found
out.”

“Doesn’t anyone else know you’re a humbug?” asked Dorothy.

“No one knows it but you four—and myself,” replied Oz. “I have fooled
everyone so long that I thought I should never be found out. It was a
great mistake my ever letting you into the Throne Room. Usually I will
not see even my subjects, and so they believe I am something terrible.”

“But, I don’t understand,” said Dorothy, in bewilderment. “How was it
that you appeared to me as a great Head?”

“That was one of my tricks,” answered Oz. “Step this way, please, and I
will tell you all about it.”

He led the way to a small chamber in the rear of the Throne Room, and
they all followed him. He pointed to one corner, in which lay the great
Head, made out of many thicknesses of paper, and with a carefully
painted face.

“This I hung from the ceiling by a wire,” said Oz. “I stood behind the
screen and pulled a thread, to make the eyes move and the mouth open.”

“But how about the voice?” she inquired.

“Oh, I am a ventriloquist,” said the little man. “I can throw the sound
of my voice wherever I wish, so that you thought it was coming out of
the Head. Here are the other things I used to deceive you.” He showed
the Scarecrow the dress and the mask he had worn when he seemed to be
the lovely Lady. And the Tin Woodman saw that his terrible Beast was
nothing but a lot of skins, sewn together, with slats to keep their
sides out. As for the Ball of Fire, the false Wizard had hung that also
from the ceiling. It was really a ball of cotton, but when oil was
poured upon it the ball burned fiercely.

“Really,” said the Scarecrow, “you ought to be ashamed of yourself for
being such a humbug.”

“I am—I certainly am,” answered the little man sorrowfully; “but it was
the only thing I could do. Sit down, please, there are plenty of
chairs; and I will tell you my story.”

So they sat down and listened while he told the following tale.

“I was born in Omaha—”

“Why, that isn’t very far from Kansas!” cried Dorothy.

“No, but it’s farther from here,” he said, shaking his head at her
sadly. “When I grew up I became a ventriloquist, and at that I was very
well trained by a great master. I can imitate any kind of a bird or
beast.” Here he mewed so like a kitten that Toto pricked up his ears
and looked everywhere to see where she was. “After a time,” continued
Oz, “I tired of that, and became a balloonist.”

“What is that?” asked Dorothy.

“A man who goes up in a balloon on circus day, so as to draw a crowd of
people together and get them to pay to see the circus,” he explained.

“Oh,” she said, “I know.”

“Well, one day I went up in a balloon and the ropes got twisted, so
that I couldn’t come down again. It went way up above the clouds, so
far that a current of air struck it and carried it many, many miles
away. For a day and a night I traveled through the air, and on the
morning of the second day I awoke and found the balloon floating over a
strange and beautiful country.

“It came down gradually, and I was not hurt a bit. But I found myself
in the midst of a strange people, who, seeing me come from the clouds,
thought I was a great Wizard. Of course I let them think so, because
they were afraid of me, and promised to do anything I wished them to.

“Just to amuse myself, and keep the good people busy, I ordered them to
build this City, and my Palace; and they did it all willingly and well.
Then I thought, as the country was so green and beautiful, I would call
it the Emerald City; and to make the name fit better I put green
spectacles on all the people, so that everything they saw was green.”

“But isn’t everything here green?” asked Dorothy.

“No more than in any other city,” replied Oz; “but when you wear green
spectacles, why of course everything you see looks green to you. The
Emerald City was built a great many years ago, for I was a young man
when the balloon brought me here, and I am a very old man now. But my
people have worn green glasses on their eyes so long that most of them
think it really is an Emerald City, and it certainly is a beautiful
place, abounding in jewels and precious metals, and every good thing
that is needed to make one happy. I have been good to the people, and
they like me; but ever since this Palace was built, I have shut myself
up and would not see any of them.

“One of my greatest fears was the Witches, for while I had no magical
powers at all I soon found out that the Witches were really able to do
wonderful things. There were four of them in this country, and they
ruled the people who live in the North and South and East and West.
Fortunately, the Witches of the North and South were good, and I knew
they would do me no harm; but the Witches of the East and West were
terribly wicked, and had they not thought I was more powerful than they
themselves, they would surely have destroyed me. As it was, I lived in
deadly fear of them for many years; so you can imagine how pleased I
was when I heard your house had fallen on the Wicked Witch of the East.
When you came to me, I was willing to promise anything if you would
only do away with the other Witch; but, now that you have melted her, I
am ashamed to say that I cannot keep my promises.”

“I think you are a very bad man,” said Dorothy.

“Oh, no, my dear; I’m really a very good man, but I’m a very bad
Wizard, I must admit.”

“Can’t you give me brains?” asked the Scarecrow.

“You don’t need them. You are learning something every day. A baby has
brains, but it doesn’t know much. Experience is the only thing that
brings knowledge, and the longer you are on earth the more experience
you are sure to get.”

“That may all be true,” said the Scarecrow, “but I shall be very
unhappy unless you give me brains.”

The false Wizard looked at him carefully.

“Well,” he said with a sigh, “I’m not much of a magician, as I said;
but if you will come to me tomorrow morning, I will stuff your head
with brains. I cannot tell you how to use them, however; you must find
that out for yourself.”

“Oh, thank you—thank you!” cried the Scarecrow. “I’ll find a way to use
them, never fear!”

“But how about my courage?” asked the Lion anxiously.

“You have plenty of courage, I am sure,” answered Oz. “All you need is
confidence in yourself. There is no living thing that is not afraid
when it faces danger. The True courage is in facing danger when you are
afraid, and that kind of courage you have in plenty.”

“Perhaps I have, but I’m scared just the same,” said the Lion. “I shall
really be very unhappy unless you give me the sort of courage that
makes one forget he is afraid.”

“Very well, I will give you that sort of courage tomorrow,” replied Oz.

“How about my heart?” asked the Tin Woodman.

“Why, as for that,” answered Oz, “I think you are wrong to want a
heart. It makes most people unhappy. If you only knew it, you are in
luck not to have a heart.”

“That must be a matter of opinion,” said the Tin Woodman. “For my part,
I will bear all the unhappiness without a murmur, if you will give me
the heart.”

“Very well,” answered Oz meekly. “Come to me tomorrow and you shall
have a heart. I have played Wizard for so many years that I may as well
continue the part a little longer.”

“And now,” said Dorothy, “how am I to get back to Kansas?”

“We shall have to think about that,” replied the little man. “Give me
two or three days to consider the matter and I’ll try to find a way to
carry you over the desert. In the meantime you shall all be treated as
my guests, and while you live in the Palace my people will wait upon
you and obey your slightest wish. There is only one thing I ask in
return for my help—such as it is. You must keep my secret and tell no
one I am a humbug.”

They agreed to say nothing of what they had learned, and went back to
their rooms in high spirits. Even Dorothy had hope that “The Great and
Terrible Humbug,” as she called him, would find a way to send her back
to Kansas, and if he did she was willing to forgive him everything.




Chapter XVI
The Magic Art of the Great Humbug


Next morning the Scarecrow said to his friends:

“Congratulate me. I am going to Oz to get my brains at last. When I
return I shall be as other men are.”

“I have always liked you as you were,” said Dorothy simply.

“It is kind of you to like a Scarecrow,” he replied. “But surely you
will think more of me when you hear the splendid thoughts my new brain
is going to turn out.” Then he said good-bye to them all in a cheerful
voice and went to the Throne Room, where he rapped upon the door.

“Come in,” said Oz.

The Scarecrow went in and found the little man sitting down by the
window, engaged in deep thought.

“I have come for my brains,” remarked the Scarecrow, a little uneasily.

“Oh, yes; sit down in that chair, please,” replied Oz. “You must excuse
me for taking your head off, but I shall have to do it in order to put
your brains in their proper place.”

“That’s all right,” said the Scarecrow. “You are quite welcome to take
my head off, as long as it will be a better one when you put it on
again.”

So the Wizard unfastened his head and emptied out the straw. Then he
entered the back room and took up a measure of bran, which he mixed
with a great many pins and needles. Having shaken them together
thoroughly, he filled the top of the Scarecrow’s head with the mixture
and stuffed the rest of the space with straw, to hold it in place.

When he had fastened the Scarecrow’s head on his body again he said to
him, “Hereafter you will be a great man, for I have given you a lot of
bran-new brains.”

The Scarecrow was both pleased and proud at the fulfillment of his
greatest wish, and having thanked Oz warmly he went back to his
friends.

Dorothy looked at him curiously. His head was quite bulged out at the
top with brains.

“How do you feel?” she asked.

“I feel wise indeed,” he answered earnestly. “When I get used to my
brains I shall know everything.”

“Why are those needles and pins sticking out of your head?” asked the
Tin Woodman.

“That is proof that he is sharp,” remarked the Lion.

“Well, I must go to Oz and get my heart,” said the Woodman. So he
walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.

“Come in,” called Oz, and the Woodman entered and said, “I have come
for my heart.”

“Very well,” answered the little man. “But I shall have to cut a hole
in your breast, so I can put your heart in the right place. I hope it
won’t hurt you.”

“Oh, no,” answered the Woodman. “I shall not feel it at all.”

So Oz brought a pair of tinsmith’s shears and cut a small, square hole
in the left side of the Tin Woodman’s breast. Then, going to a chest of
drawers, he took out a pretty heart, made entirely of silk and stuffed
with sawdust.

“Isn’t it a beauty?” he asked.

“It is, indeed!” replied the Woodman, who was greatly pleased. “But is
it a kind heart?”

“Oh, very!” answered Oz. He put the heart in the Woodman’s breast and
then replaced the square of tin, soldering it neatly together where it
had been cut.

“There,” said he; “now you have a heart that any man might be proud of.
I’m sorry I had to put a patch on your breast, but it really couldn’t
be helped.”

“Never mind the patch,” exclaimed the happy Woodman. “I am very
grateful to you, and shall never forget your kindness.”

“Don’t speak of it,” replied Oz.

Then the Tin Woodman went back to his friends, who wished him every joy
on account of his good fortune.

The Lion now walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.

“Come in,” said Oz.

“I have come for my courage,” announced the Lion, entering the room.

“Very well,” answered the little man; “I will get it for you.”

He went to a cupboard and reaching up to a high shelf took down a
square green bottle, the contents of which he poured into a green-gold
dish, beautifully carved. Placing this before the Cowardly Lion, who
sniffed at it as if he did not like it, the Wizard said:

“Drink.”

“What is it?” asked the Lion.

“Well,” answered Oz, “if it were inside of you, it would be courage.
You know, of course, that courage is always inside one; so that this
really cannot be called courage until you have swallowed it. Therefore
I advise you to drink it as soon as possible.”

The Lion hesitated no longer, but drank till the dish was empty.

“How do you feel now?” asked Oz.

“Full of courage,” replied the Lion, who went joyfully back to his
friends to tell them of his good fortune.

Oz, left to himself, smiled to think of his success in giving the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion exactly what they thought
they wanted. “How can I help being a humbug,” he said, “when all these
people make me do things that everybody knows can’t be done? It was
easy to make the Scarecrow and the Lion and the Woodman happy, because
they imagined I could do anything. But it will take more than
imagination to carry Dorothy back to Kansas, and I’m sure I don’t know
how it can be done.”




Chapter XVII
How the Balloon Was Launched


For three days Dorothy heard nothing from Oz. These were sad days for
the little girl, although her friends were all quite happy and
contented. The Scarecrow told them there were wonderful thoughts in his
head; but he would not say what they were because he knew no one could
understand them but himself. When the Tin Woodman walked about he felt
his heart rattling around in his breast; and he told Dorothy he had
discovered it to be a kinder and more tender heart than the one he had
owned when he was made of flesh. The Lion declared he was afraid of
nothing on earth, and would gladly face an army or a dozen of the
fierce Kalidahs.

Thus each of the little party was satisfied except Dorothy, who longed
more than ever to get back to Kansas.

On the fourth day, to her great joy, Oz sent for her, and when she
entered the Throne Room he greeted her pleasantly:

“Sit down, my dear; I think I have found the way to get you out of this
country.”

“And back to Kansas?” she asked eagerly.

“Well, I’m not sure about Kansas,” said Oz, “for I haven’t the faintest
notion which way it lies. But the first thing to do is to cross the
desert, and then it should be easy to find your way home.”

“How can I cross the desert?” she inquired.

“Well, I’ll tell you what I think,” said the little man. “You see, when
I came to this country it was in a balloon. You also came through the
air, being carried by a cyclone. So I believe the best way to get
across the desert will be through the air. Now, it is quite beyond my
powers to make a cyclone; but I’ve been thinking the matter over, and I
believe I can make a balloon.”

“How?” asked Dorothy.

“A balloon,” said Oz, “is made of silk, which is coated with glue to
keep the gas in it. I have plenty of silk in the Palace, so it will be
no trouble to make the balloon. But in all this country there is no gas
to fill the balloon with, to make it float.”

“If it won’t float,” remarked Dorothy, “it will be of no use to us.”

“True,” answered Oz. “But there is another way to make it float, which
is to fill it with hot air. Hot air isn’t as good as gas, for if the
air should get cold the balloon would come down in the desert, and we
should be lost.”

“We!” exclaimed the girl. “Are you going with me?”

“Yes, of course,” replied Oz. “I am tired of being such a humbug. If I
should go out of this Palace my people would soon discover I am not a
Wizard, and then they would be vexed with me for having deceived them.
So I have to stay shut up in these rooms all day, and it gets tiresome.
I’d much rather go back to Kansas with you and be in a circus again.”

“I shall be glad to have your company,” said Dorothy.

“Thank you,” he answered. “Now, if you will help me sew the silk
together, we will begin to work on our balloon.”

So Dorothy took a needle and thread, and as fast as Oz cut the strips
of silk into proper shape the girl sewed them neatly together. First
there was a strip of light green silk, then a strip of dark green and
then a strip of emerald green; for Oz had a fancy to make the balloon
in different shades of the color about them. It took three days to sew
all the strips together, but when it was finished they had a big bag of
green silk more than twenty feet long.

Then Oz painted it on the inside with a coat of thin glue, to make it
airtight, after which he announced that the balloon was ready.

“But we must have a basket to ride in,” he said. So he sent the soldier
with the green whiskers for a big clothes basket, which he fastened
with many ropes to the bottom of the balloon.

When it was all ready, Oz sent word to his people that he was going to
make a visit to a great brother Wizard who lived in the clouds. The
news spread rapidly throughout the city and everyone came to see the
wonderful sight.

Oz ordered the balloon carried out in front of the Palace, and the
people gazed upon it with much curiosity. The Tin Woodman had chopped a
big pile of wood, and now he made a fire of it, and Oz held the bottom
of the balloon over the fire so that the hot air that arose from it
would be caught in the silken bag. Gradually the balloon swelled out
and rose into the air, until finally the basket just touched the
ground.

Then Oz got into the basket and said to all the people in a loud voice:

“I am now going away to make a visit. While I am gone the Scarecrow
will rule over you. I command you to obey him as you would me.”

The balloon was by this time tugging hard at the rope that held it to
the ground, for the air within it was hot, and this made it so much
lighter in weight than the air without that it pulled hard to rise into
the sky.

“Come, Dorothy!” cried the Wizard. “Hurry up, or the balloon will fly
away.”

“I can’t find Toto anywhere,” replied Dorothy, who did not wish to
leave her little dog behind. Toto had run into the crowd to bark at a
kitten, and Dorothy at last found him. She picked him up and ran
towards the balloon.

She was within a few steps of it, and Oz was holding out his hands to
help her into the basket, when, crack! went the ropes, and the balloon
rose into the air without her.

“Come back!” she screamed. “I want to go, too!”

“I can’t come back, my dear,” called Oz from the basket. “Good-bye!”

“Good-bye!” shouted everyone, and all eyes were turned upward to where
the Wizard was riding in the basket, rising every moment farther and
farther into the sky.

And that was the last any of them ever saw of Oz, the Wonderful Wizard,
though he may have reached Omaha safely, and be there now, for all we
know. But the people remembered him lovingly, and said to one another:

“Oz was always our friend. When he was here he built for us this
beautiful Emerald City, and now he is gone he has left the Wise
Scarecrow to rule over us.”

Still, for many days they grieved over the loss of the Wonderful
Wizard, and would not be comforted.




Chapter XVIII
Away to the South


Dorothy wept bitterly at the passing of her hope to get home to Kansas
again; but when she thought it all over she was glad she had not gone
up in a balloon. And she also felt sorry at losing Oz, and so did her
companions.

The Tin Woodman came to her and said:

“Truly I should be ungrateful if I failed to mourn for the man who gave
me my lovely heart. I should like to cry a little because Oz is gone,
if you will kindly wipe away my tears, so that I shall not rust.”

“With pleasure,” she answered, and brought a towel at once. Then the
Tin Woodman wept for several minutes, and she watched the tears
carefully and wiped them away with the towel. When he had finished, he
thanked her kindly and oiled himself thoroughly with his jeweled
oil-can, to guard against mishap.

The Scarecrow was now the ruler of the Emerald City, and although he
was not a Wizard the people were proud of him. “For,” they said, “there
is not another city in all the world that is ruled by a stuffed man.”
And, so far as they knew, they were quite right.

The morning after the balloon had gone up with Oz, the four travelers
met in the Throne Room and talked matters over. The Scarecrow sat in
the big throne and the others stood respectfully before him.

“We are not so unlucky,” said the new ruler, “for this Palace and the
Emerald City belong to us, and we can do just as we please. When I
remember that a short time ago I was up on a pole in a farmer’s
cornfield, and that now I am the ruler of this beautiful City, I am
quite satisfied with my lot.”

“I also,” said the Tin Woodman, “am well-pleased with my new heart;
and, really, that was the only thing I wished in all the world.”

“For my part, I am content in knowing I am as brave as any beast that
ever lived, if not braver,” said the Lion modestly.

“If Dorothy would only be contented to live in the Emerald City,”
continued the Scarecrow, “we might all be happy together.”

“But I don’t want to live here,” cried Dorothy. “I want to go to
Kansas, and live with Aunt Em and Uncle Henry.”

“Well, then, what can be done?” inquired the Woodman.

The Scarecrow decided to think, and he thought so hard that the pins
and needles began to stick out of his brains. Finally he said:

“Why not call the Winged Monkeys, and ask them to carry you over the
desert?”

“I never thought of that!” said Dorothy joyfully. “It’s just the thing.
I’ll go at once for the Golden Cap.”

When she brought it into the Throne Room she spoke the magic words, and
soon the band of Winged Monkeys flew in through the open window and
stood beside her.

“This is the second time you have called us,” said the Monkey King,
bowing before the little girl. “What do you wish?”

“I want you to fly with me to Kansas,” said Dorothy.

But the Monkey King shook his head.

“That cannot be done,” he said. “We belong to this country alone, and
cannot leave it. There has never been a Winged Monkey in Kansas yet,
and I suppose there never will be, for they don’t belong there. We
shall be glad to serve you in any way in our power, but we cannot cross
the desert. Good-bye.”

And with another bow, the Monkey King spread his wings and flew away
through the window, followed by all his band.

Dorothy was ready to cry with disappointment. “I have wasted the charm
of the Golden Cap to no purpose,” she said, “for the Winged Monkeys
cannot help me.”

“It is certainly too bad!” said the tender-hearted Woodman.

The Scarecrow was thinking again, and his head bulged out so horribly
that Dorothy feared it would burst.

“Let us call in the soldier with the green whiskers,” he said, “and ask
his advice.”

So the soldier was summoned and entered the Throne Room timidly, for
while Oz was alive he never was allowed to come farther than the door.

“This little girl,” said the Scarecrow to the soldier, “wishes to cross
the desert. How can she do so?”

“I cannot tell,” answered the soldier, “for nobody has ever crossed the
desert, unless it is Oz himself.”

“Is there no one who can help me?” asked Dorothy earnestly.

“Glinda might,” he suggested.

“Who is Glinda?” inquired the Scarecrow.

“The Witch of the South. She is the most powerful of all the Witches,
and rules over the Quadlings. Besides, her castle stands on the edge of
the desert, so she may know a way to cross it.”

“Glinda is a Good Witch, isn’t she?” asked the child.

“The Quadlings think she is good,” said the soldier, “and she is kind
to everyone. I have heard that Glinda is a beautiful woman, who knows
how to keep young in spite of the many years she has lived.”

“How can I get to her castle?” asked Dorothy.

“The road is straight to the South,” he answered, “but it is said to be
full of dangers to travelers. There are wild beasts in the woods, and a
race of queer men who do not like strangers to cross their country. For
this reason none of the Quadlings ever come to the Emerald City.”

The soldier then left them and the Scarecrow said:

“It seems, in spite of dangers, that the best thing Dorothy can do is
to travel to the Land of the South and ask Glinda to help her. For, of
course, if Dorothy stays here she will never get back to Kansas.”

“You must have been thinking again,” remarked the Tin Woodman.

“I have,” said the Scarecrow.

“I shall go with Dorothy,” declared the Lion, “for I am tired of your
city and long for the woods and the country again. I am really a wild
beast, you know. Besides, Dorothy will need someone to protect her.”

“That is true,” agreed the Woodman. “My axe may be of service to her;
so I also will go with her to the Land of the South.”

“When shall we start?” asked the Scarecrow.

“Are you going?” they asked, in surprise.

“Certainly. If it wasn’t for Dorothy I should never have had brains.
She lifted me from the pole in the cornfield and brought me to the
Emerald City. So my good luck is all due to her, and I shall never
leave her until she starts back to Kansas for good and all.”

“Thank you,” said Dorothy gratefully. “You are all very kind to me. But
I should like to start as soon as possible.”

“We shall go tomorrow morning,” returned the Scarecrow. “So now let us
all get ready, for it will be a long journey.”




Chapter XIX
Attacked by the Fighting Trees


The next morning Dorothy kissed the pretty green girl good-bye, and
they all shook hands with the soldier with the green whiskers, who had
walked with them as far as the gate. When the Guardian of the Gate saw
them again he wondered greatly that they could leave the beautiful City
to get into new trouble. But he at once unlocked their spectacles,
which he put back into the green box, and gave them many good wishes to
carry with them.

“You are now our ruler,” he said to the Scarecrow; “so you must come
back to us as soon as possible.”

“I certainly shall if I am able,” the Scarecrow replied; “but I must
help Dorothy to get home, first.”

As Dorothy bade the good-natured Guardian a last farewell she said:

“I have been very kindly treated in your lovely City, and everyone has
been good to me. I cannot tell you how grateful I am.”

“Don’t try, my dear,” he answered. “We should like to keep you with us,
but if it is your wish to return to Kansas, I hope you will find a
way.” He then opened the gate of the outer wall, and they walked forth
and started upon their journey.

The sun shone brightly as our friends turned their faces toward the
Land of the South. They were all in the best of spirits, and laughed
and chatted together. Dorothy was once more filled with the hope of
getting home, and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were glad to be of
use to her. As for the Lion, he sniffed the fresh air with delight and
whisked his tail from side to side in pure joy at being in the country
again, while Toto ran around them and chased the moths and butterflies,
barking merrily all the time.

“City life does not agree with me at all,” remarked the Lion, as they
walked along at a brisk pace. “I have lost much flesh since I lived
there, and now I am anxious for a chance to show the other beasts how
courageous I have grown.”

They now turned and took a last look at the Emerald City. All they
could see was a mass of towers and steeples behind the green walls, and
high up above everything the spires and dome of the Palace of Oz.

“Oz was not such a bad Wizard, after all,” said the Tin Woodman, as he
felt his heart rattling around in his breast.

“He knew how to give me brains, and very good brains, too,” said the
Scarecrow.

“If Oz had taken a dose of the same courage he gave me,” added the
Lion, “he would have been a brave man.”

Dorothy said nothing. Oz had not kept the promise he made her, but he
had done his best, so she forgave him. As he said, he was a good man,
even if he was a bad Wizard.

The first day’s journey was through the green fields and bright flowers
that stretched about the Emerald City on every side. They slept that
night on the grass, with nothing but the stars over them; and they
rested very well indeed.

In the morning they traveled on until they came to a thick wood. There
was no way of going around it, for it seemed to extend to the right and
left as far as they could see; and, besides, they did not dare change
the direction of their journey for fear of getting lost. So they looked
for the place where it would be easiest to get into the forest.

The Scarecrow, who was in the lead, finally discovered a big tree with
such wide-spreading branches that there was room for the party to pass
underneath. So he walked forward to the tree, but just as he came under
the first branches they bent down and twined around him, and the next
minute he was raised from the ground and flung headlong among his
fellow travelers.

This did not hurt the Scarecrow, but it surprised him, and he looked
rather dizzy when Dorothy picked him up.

“Here is another space between the trees,” called the Lion.

“Let me try it first,” said the Scarecrow, “for it doesn’t hurt me to
get thrown about.” He walked up to another tree, as he spoke, but its
branches immediately seized him and tossed him back again.

“This is strange,” exclaimed Dorothy. “What shall we do?”

“The trees seem to have made up their minds to fight us, and stop our
journey,” remarked the Lion.

“I believe I will try it myself,” said the Woodman, and shouldering his
axe, he marched up to the first tree that had handled the Scarecrow so
roughly. When a big branch bent down to seize him the Woodman chopped
at it so fiercely that he cut it in two. At once the tree began shaking
all its branches as if in pain, and the Tin Woodman passed safely under
it.

“Come on!” he shouted to the others. “Be quick!” They all ran forward
and passed under the tree without injury, except Toto, who was caught
by a small branch and shaken until he howled. But the Woodman promptly
chopped off the branch and set the little dog free.

The other trees of the forest did nothing to keep them back, so they
made up their minds that only the first row of trees could bend down
their branches, and that probably these were the policemen of the
forest, and given this wonderful power in order to keep strangers out
of it.

The four travelers walked with ease through the trees until they came
to the farther edge of the wood. Then, to their surprise, they found
before them a high wall which seemed to be made of white china. It was
smooth, like the surface of a dish, and higher than their heads.

“What shall we do now?” asked Dorothy.

“I will make a ladder,” said the Tin Woodman, “for we certainly must
climb over the wall.”




Chapter XX
The Dainty China Country


While the Woodman was making a ladder from wood which he found in the
forest Dorothy lay down and slept, for she was tired by the long walk.
The Lion also curled himself up to sleep and Toto lay beside him.

The Scarecrow watched the Woodman while he worked, and said to him:

“I cannot think why this wall is here, nor what it is made of.”

“Rest your brains and do not worry about the wall,” replied the
Woodman. “When we have climbed over it, we shall know what is on the
other side.”

After a time the ladder was finished. It looked clumsy, but the Tin
Woodman was sure it was strong and would answer their purpose. The
Scarecrow waked Dorothy and the Lion and Toto, and told them that the
ladder was ready. The Scarecrow climbed up the ladder first, but he was
so awkward that Dorothy had to follow close behind and keep him from
falling off. When he got his head over the top of the wall the
Scarecrow said, “Oh, my!”

“Go on,” exclaimed Dorothy.

So the Scarecrow climbed farther up and sat down on the top of the
wall, and Dorothy put her head over and cried, “Oh, my!” just as the
Scarecrow had done.

Then Toto came up, and immediately began to bark, but Dorothy made him
be still.

The Lion climbed the ladder next, and the Tin Woodman came last; but
both of them cried, “Oh, my!” as soon as they looked over the wall.
When they were all sitting in a row on the top of the wall, they looked
down and saw a strange sight.

Before them was a great stretch of country having a floor as smooth and
shining and white as the bottom of a big platter. Scattered around were
many houses made entirely of china and painted in the brightest colors.
These houses were quite small, the biggest of them reaching only as
high as Dorothy’s waist. There were also pretty little barns, with
china fences around them; and many cows and sheep and horses and pigs
and chickens, all made of china, were standing about in groups.

But the strangest of all were the people who lived in this queer
country. There were milkmaids and shepherdesses, with brightly colored
bodices and golden spots all over their gowns; and princesses with most
gorgeous frocks of silver and gold and purple; and shepherds dressed in
knee breeches with pink and yellow and blue stripes down them, and
golden buckles on their shoes; and princes with jeweled crowns upon
their heads, wearing ermine robes and satin doublets; and funny clowns
in ruffled gowns, with round red spots upon their cheeks and tall,
pointed caps. And, strangest of all, these people were all made of
china, even to their clothes, and were so small that the tallest of
them was no higher than Dorothy’s knee.

No one did so much as look at the travelers at first, except one little
purple china dog with an extra-large head, which came to the wall and
barked at them in a tiny voice, afterwards running away again.

“How shall we get down?” asked Dorothy.

They found the ladder so heavy they could not pull it up, so the
Scarecrow fell off the wall and the others jumped down upon him so that
the hard floor would not hurt their feet. Of course they took pains not
to light on his head and get the pins in their feet. When all were
safely down they picked up the Scarecrow, whose body was quite
flattened out, and patted his straw into shape again.

“We must cross this strange place in order to get to the other side,”
said Dorothy, “for it would be unwise for us to go any other way except
due South.”

They began walking through the country of the china people, and the
first thing they came to was a china milkmaid milking a china cow. As
they drew near, the cow suddenly gave a kick and kicked over the stool,
the pail, and even the milkmaid herself, and all fell on the china
ground with a great clatter.

Dorothy was shocked to see that the cow had broken her leg off, and
that the pail was lying in several small pieces, while the poor
milkmaid had a nick in her left elbow.

“There!” cried the milkmaid angrily. “See what you have done! My cow
has broken her leg, and I must take her to the mender’s shop and have
it glued on again. What do you mean by coming here and frightening my
cow?”

“I’m very sorry,” returned Dorothy. “Please forgive us.”

But the pretty milkmaid was much too vexed to make any answer. She
picked up the leg sulkily and led her cow away, the poor animal limping
on three legs. As she left them the milkmaid cast many reproachful
glances over her shoulder at the clumsy strangers, holding her nicked
elbow close to her side.

Dorothy was quite grieved at this mishap.

“We must be very careful here,” said the kind-hearted Woodman, “or we
may hurt these pretty little people so they will never get over it.”

A little farther on Dorothy met a most beautifully dressed young
Princess, who stopped short as she saw the strangers and started to run
away.

Dorothy wanted to see more of the Princess, so she ran after her. But
the china girl cried out:

“Don’t chase me! Don’t chase me!”

She had such a frightened little voice that Dorothy stopped and said,
“Why not?”

“Because,” answered the Princess, also stopping, a safe distance away,
“if I run I may fall down and break myself.”

“But could you not be mended?” asked the girl.

“Oh, yes; but one is never so pretty after being mended, you know,”
replied the Princess.

“I suppose not,” said Dorothy.

“Now there is Mr. Joker, one of our clowns,” continued the china lady,
“who is always trying to stand upon his head. He has broken himself so
often that he is mended in a hundred places, and doesn’t look at all
pretty. Here he comes now, so you can see for yourself.”

Indeed, a jolly little clown came walking toward them, and Dorothy
could see that in spite of his pretty clothes of red and yellow and
green he was completely covered with cracks, running every which way
and showing plainly that he had been mended in many places.

The Clown put his hands in his pockets, and after puffing out his
cheeks and nodding his head at them saucily, he said:

    “My lady fair,
   Why do you stare
At poor old Mr. Joker?
    You’re quite as stiff
    And prim as if
You’d eaten up a poker!”


“Be quiet, sir!” said the Princess. “Can’t you see these are strangers,
and should be treated with respect?”

“Well, that’s respect, I expect,” declared the Clown, and immediately
stood upon his head.

“Don’t mind Mr. Joker,” said the Princess to Dorothy. “He is
considerably cracked in his head, and that makes him foolish.”

“Oh, I don’t mind him a bit,” said Dorothy. “But you are so beautiful,”
she continued, “that I am sure I could love you dearly. Won’t you let
me carry you back to Kansas, and stand you on Aunt Em’s mantel? I could
carry you in my basket.”

“That would make me very unhappy,” answered the china Princess. “You
see, here in our country we live contentedly, and can talk and move
around as we please. But whenever any of us are taken away our joints
at once stiffen, and we can only stand straight and look pretty. Of
course that is all that is expected of us when we are on mantels and
cabinets and drawing-room tables, but our lives are much pleasanter
here in our own country.”

“I would not make you unhappy for all the world!” exclaimed Dorothy.
“So I’ll just say good-bye.”

“Good-bye,” replied the Princess.

They walked carefully through the china country. The little animals and
all the people scampered out of their way, fearing the strangers would
break them, and after an hour or so the travelers reached the other
side of the country and came to another china wall.

It was not so high as the first, however, and by standing upon the
Lion’s back they all managed to scramble to the top. Then the Lion
gathered his legs under him and jumped on the wall; but just as he
jumped, he upset a china church with his tail and smashed it all to
pieces.

“That was too bad,” said Dorothy, “but really I think we were lucky in
not doing these little people more harm than breaking a cow’s leg and a
church. They are all so brittle!”

“They are, indeed,” said the Scarecrow, “and I am thankful I am made of
straw and cannot be easily damaged. There are worse things in the world
than being a Scarecrow.”




Chapter XXI
The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts


After climbing down from the china wall the travelers found themselves
in a disagreeable country, full of bogs and marshes and covered with
tall, rank grass. It was difficult to walk without falling into muddy
holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight. However,
by carefully picking their way, they got safely along until they
reached solid ground. But here the country seemed wilder than ever, and
after a long and tiresome walk through the underbrush they entered
another forest, where the trees were bigger and older than any they had
ever seen.

“This forest is perfectly delightful,” declared the Lion, looking
around him with joy. “Never have I seen a more beautiful place.”

“It seems gloomy,” said the Scarecrow.

“Not a bit of it,” answered the Lion. “I should like to live here all
my life. See how soft the dried leaves are under your feet and how rich
and green the moss is that clings to these old trees. Surely no wild
beast could wish a pleasanter home.”

“Perhaps there are wild beasts in the forest now,” said Dorothy.

“I suppose there are,” returned the Lion, “but I do not see any of them
about.”

They walked through the forest until it became too dark to go any
farther. Dorothy and Toto and the Lion lay down to sleep, while the
Woodman and the Scarecrow kept watch over them as usual.

When morning came, they started again. Before they had gone far they
heard a low rumble, as of the growling of many wild animals. Toto
whimpered a little, but none of the others was frightened, and they
kept along the well-trodden path until they came to an opening in the
wood, in which were gathered hundreds of beasts of every variety. There
were tigers and elephants and bears and wolves and foxes and all the
others in the natural history, and for a moment Dorothy was afraid. But
the Lion explained that the animals were holding a meeting, and he
judged by their snarling and growling that they were in great trouble.

As he spoke several of the beasts caught sight of him, and at once the
great assemblage hushed as if by magic. The biggest of the tigers came
up to the Lion and bowed, saying:

“Welcome, O King of Beasts! You have come in good time to fight our
enemy and bring peace to all the animals of the forest once more.”

“What is your trouble?” asked the Lion quietly.

“We are all threatened,” answered the tiger, “by a fierce enemy which
has lately come into this forest. It is a most tremendous monster, like
a great spider, with a body as big as an elephant and legs as long as a
tree trunk. It has eight of these long legs, and as the monster crawls
through the forest he seizes an animal with a leg and drags it to his
mouth, where he eats it as a spider does a fly. Not one of us is safe
while this fierce creature is alive, and we had called a meeting to
decide how to take care of ourselves when you came among us.”

The Lion thought for a moment.

“Are there any other lions in this forest?” he asked.

“No; there were some, but the monster has eaten them all. And, besides,
they were none of them nearly so large and brave as you.”

“If I put an end to your enemy, will you bow down to me and obey me as
King of the Forest?” inquired the Lion.

“We will do that gladly,” returned the tiger; and all the other beasts
roared with a mighty roar: “We will!”

“Where is this great spider of yours now?” asked the Lion.

“Yonder, among the oak trees,” said the tiger, pointing with his
forefoot.

“Take good care of these friends of mine,” said the Lion, “and I will
go at once to fight the monster.”

He bade his comrades good-bye and marched proudly away to do battle
with the enemy.

The great spider was lying asleep when the Lion found him, and it
looked so ugly that its foe turned up his nose in disgust. Its legs
were quite as long as the tiger had said, and its body covered with
coarse black hair. It had a great mouth, with a row of sharp teeth a
foot long; but its head was joined to the pudgy body by a neck as
slender as a wasp’s waist. This gave the Lion a hint of the best way to
attack the creature, and as he knew it was easier to fight it asleep
than awake, he gave a great spring and landed directly upon the
monster’s back. Then, with one blow of his heavy paw, all armed with
sharp claws, he knocked the spider’s head from its body. Jumping down,
he watched it until the long legs stopped wiggling, when he knew it was
quite dead.

The Lion went back to the opening where the beasts of the forest were
waiting for him and said proudly:

“You need fear your enemy no longer.”

Then the beasts bowed down to the Lion as their King, and he promised
to come back and rule over them as soon as Dorothy was safely on her
way to Kansas.




Chapter XXII
The Country of the Quadlings


The four travelers passed through the rest of the forest in safety, and
when they came out from its gloom saw before them a steep hill, covered
from top to bottom with great pieces of rock.

“That will be a hard climb,” said the Scarecrow, “but we must get over
the hill, nevertheless.”

So he led the way and the others followed. They had nearly reached the
first rock when they heard a rough voice cry out, “Keep back!”

“Who are you?” asked the Scarecrow.

Then a head showed itself over the rock and the same voice said, “This
hill belongs to us, and we don’t allow anyone to cross it.”

“But we must cross it,” said the Scarecrow. “We’re going to the country
of the Quadlings.”

“But you shall not!” replied the voice, and there stepped from behind
the rock the strangest man the travelers had ever seen.

He was quite short and stout and had a big head, which was flat at the
top and supported by a thick neck full of wrinkles. But he had no arms
at all, and, seeing this, the Scarecrow did not fear that so helpless a
creature could prevent them from climbing the hill. So he said, “I’m
sorry not to do as you wish, but we must pass over your hill whether
you like it or not,” and he walked boldly forward.

As quick as lightning the man’s head shot forward and his neck
stretched out until the top of the head, where it was flat, struck the
Scarecrow in the middle and sent him tumbling, over and over, down the
hill. Almost as quickly as it came the head went back to the body, and
the man laughed harshly as he said, “It isn’t as easy as you think!”

A chorus of boisterous laughter came from the other rocks, and Dorothy
saw hundreds of the armless Hammer-Heads upon the hillside, one behind
every rock.

The Lion became quite angry at the laughter caused by the Scarecrow’s
mishap, and giving a loud roar that echoed like thunder, he dashed up
the hill.

Again a head shot swiftly out, and the great Lion went rolling down the
hill as if he had been struck by a cannon ball.

Dorothy ran down and helped the Scarecrow to his feet, and the Lion
came up to her, feeling rather bruised and sore, and said, “It is
useless to fight people with shooting heads; no one can withstand
them.”

“What can we do, then?” she asked.

“Call the Winged Monkeys,” suggested the Tin Woodman. “You have still
the right to command them once more.”

“Very well,” she answered, and putting on the Golden Cap she uttered
the magic words. The Monkeys were as prompt as ever, and in a few
moments the entire band stood before her.

“What are your commands?” inquired the King of the Monkeys, bowing low.

“Carry us over the hill to the country of the Quadlings,” answered the
girl.

“It shall be done,” said the King, and at once the Winged Monkeys
caught the four travelers and Toto up in their arms and flew away with
them. As they passed over the hill the Hammer-Heads yelled with
vexation, and shot their heads high in the air, but they could not
reach the Winged Monkeys, which carried Dorothy and her comrades safely
over the hill and set them down in the beautiful country of the
Quadlings.

“This is the last time you can summon us,” said the leader to Dorothy;
“so good-bye and good luck to you.”

“Good-bye, and thank you very much,” returned the girl; and the Monkeys
rose into the air and were out of sight in a twinkling.

The country of the Quadlings seemed rich and happy. There was field
upon field of ripening grain, with well-paved roads running between,
and pretty rippling brooks with strong bridges across them. The fences
and houses and bridges were all painted bright red, just as they had
been painted yellow in the country of the Winkies and blue in the
country of the Munchkins. The Quadlings themselves, who were short and
fat and looked chubby and good-natured, were dressed all in red, which
showed bright against the green grass and the yellowing grain.

The Monkeys had set them down near a farmhouse, and the four travelers
walked up to it and knocked at the door. It was opened by the farmer’s
wife, and when Dorothy asked for something to eat the woman gave them
all a good dinner, with three kinds of cake and four kinds of cookies,
and a bowl of milk for Toto.

“How far is it to the Castle of Glinda?” asked the child.

“It is not a great way,” answered the farmer’s wife. “Take the road to
the South and you will soon reach it.”

Thanking the good woman, they started afresh and walked by the fields
and across the pretty bridges until they saw before them a very
beautiful Castle. Before the gates were three young girls, dressed in
handsome red uniforms trimmed with gold braid; and as Dorothy
approached, one of them said to her:

“Why have you come to the South Country?”

“To see the Good Witch who rules here,” she answered. “Will you take me
to her?”

“Let me have your name, and I will ask Glinda if she will receive you.”
They told who they were, and the girl soldier went into the Castle.
After a few moments she came back to say that Dorothy and the others
were to be admitted at once.




Chapter XXIII
Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy’s Wish


Before they went to see Glinda, however, they were taken to a room of
the Castle, where Dorothy washed her face and combed her hair, and the
Lion shook the dust out of his mane, and the Scarecrow patted himself
into his best shape, and the Woodman polished his tin and oiled his
joints.

When they were all quite presentable they followed the soldier girl
into a big room where the Witch Glinda sat upon a throne of rubies.

She was both beautiful and young to their eyes. Her hair was a rich red
in color and fell in flowing ringlets over her shoulders. Her dress was
pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly upon the
little girl.

“What can I do for you, my child?” she asked.

Dorothy told the Witch all her story: how the cyclone had brought her
to the Land of Oz, how she had found her companions, and of the
wonderful adventures they had met with.

“My greatest wish now,” she added, “is to get back to Kansas, for Aunt
Em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that
will make her put on mourning; and unless the crops are better this
year than they were last, I am sure Uncle Henry cannot afford it.”

Glinda leaned forward and kissed the sweet, upturned face of the loving
little girl.

“Bless your dear heart,” she said, “I am sure I can tell you of a way
to get back to Kansas.” Then she added, “But, if I do, you must give me
the Golden Cap.”

“Willingly!” exclaimed Dorothy; “indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
when you have it you can command the Winged Monkeys three times.”

“And I think I shall need their service just those three times,”
answered Glinda, smiling.

Dorothy then gave her the Golden Cap, and the Witch said to the
Scarecrow, “What will you do when Dorothy has left us?”

“I will return to the Emerald City,” he replied, “for Oz has made me
its ruler and the people like me. The only thing that worries me is how
to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads.”

“By means of the Golden Cap I shall command the Winged Monkeys to carry
you to the gates of the Emerald City,” said Glinda, “for it would be a
shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler.”

“Am I really wonderful?” asked the Scarecrow.

“You are unusual,” replied Glinda.

Turning to the Tin Woodman, she asked, “What will become of you when
Dorothy leaves this country?”

He leaned on his axe and thought a moment. Then he said, “The Winkies
were very kind to me, and wanted me to rule over them after the Wicked
Witch died. I am fond of the Winkies, and if I could get back again to
the Country of the West, I should like nothing better than to rule over
them forever.”

“My second command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda “will be that
they carry you safely to the land of the Winkies. Your brain may not be
so large to look at as those of the Scarecrow, but you are really
brighter than he is—when you are well polished—and I am sure you will
rule the Winkies wisely and well.”

Then the Witch looked at the big, shaggy Lion and asked, “When Dorothy
has returned to her own home, what will become of you?”

“Over the hill of the Hammer-Heads,” he answered, “lies a grand old
forest, and all the beasts that live there have made me their King. If
I could only get back to this forest, I would pass my life very happily
there.”

“My third command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda, “shall be to
carry you to your forest. Then, having used up the powers of the Golden
Cap, I shall give it to the King of the Monkeys, that he and his band
may thereafter be free for evermore.”

The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion now thanked the Good
Witch earnestly for her kindness; and Dorothy exclaimed:

“You are certainly as good as you are beautiful! But you have not yet
told me how to get back to Kansas.”

“Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert,” replied Glinda. “If
you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em the
very first day you came to this country.”

“But then I should not have had my wonderful brains!” cried the
Scarecrow. “I might have passed my whole life in the farmer’s
cornfield.”

“And I should not have had my lovely heart,” said the Tin Woodman. “I
might have stood and rusted in the forest till the end of the world.”

“And I should have lived a coward forever,” declared the Lion, “and no
beast in all the forest would have had a good word to say to me.”

“This is all true,” said Dorothy, “and I am glad I was of use to these
good friends. But now that each of them has had what he most desired,
and each is happy in having a kingdom to rule besides, I think I should
like to go back to Kansas.”

“The Silver Shoes,” said the Good Witch, “have wonderful powers. And
one of the most curious things about them is that they can carry you to
any place in the world in three steps, and each step will be made in
the wink of an eye. All you have to do is to knock the heels together
three times and command the shoes to carry you wherever you wish to
go.”

“If that is so,” said the child joyfully, “I will ask them to carry me
back to Kansas at once.”

She threw her arms around the Lion’s neck and kissed him, patting his
big head tenderly. Then she kissed the Tin Woodman, who was weeping in
a way most dangerous to his joints. But she hugged the soft, stuffed
body of the Scarecrow in her arms instead of kissing his painted face,
and found she was crying herself at this sorrowful parting from her
loving comrades.

Glinda the Good stepped down from her ruby throne to give the little
girl a good-bye kiss, and Dorothy thanked her for all the kindness she
had shown to her friends and herself.

Dorothy now took Toto up solemnly in her arms, and having said one last
good-bye she clapped the heels of her shoes together three times,
saying:

“Take me home to Aunt Em!”


Instantly she was whirling through the air, so swiftly that all she
could see or feel was the wind whistling past her ears.

The Silver Shoes took but three steps, and then she stopped so suddenly
that she rolled over upon the grass several times before she knew where
she was.

At length, however, she sat up and looked about her.

“Good gracious!” she cried.

For she was sitting on the broad Kansas prairie, and just before her
was the new farmhouse Uncle Henry built after the cyclone had carried
away the old one. Uncle Henry was milking the cows in the barnyard, and
Toto had jumped out of her arms and was running toward the barn,
barking furiously.

Dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet. For the Silver
Shoes had fallen off in her flight through the air, and were lost
forever in the desert.




Chapter XXIV
Home Again


Aunt Em had just come out of the house to water the cabbages when she
looked up and saw Dorothy running toward her.

“My darling child!” she cried, folding the little girl in her arms and
covering her face with kisses. “Where in the world did you come from?”

“From the Land of Oz,” said Dorothy gravely. “And here is Toto, too.
And oh, Aunt Em! I’m so glad to be at home again!”

Tip Manufactures a Pumpkinhead


In the Country of the Gillikins, which is at the North of the Land of
Oz, lived a youth called Tip. There was more to his name than that, for
old Mombi often declared that his whole name was Tippetarius; but no
one was expected to say such a long word when “Tip” would do just as
well.

This boy remembered nothing of his parents, for he had been brought
when quite young to be reared by the old woman known as Mombi, whose
reputation, I am sorry to say, was none of the best. For the Gillikin
people had reason to suspect her of indulging in magical arts, and
therefore hesitated to associate with her.

[Illustration: image016]

Mombi was not exactly a Witch, because the Good Witch who ruled that
part of the Land of Oz had forbidden any other Witch to exist in her
dominions. So Tip’s guardian, however much she might aspire to working
magic, realized it was unlawful to be more than a Sorceress, or at most
a Wizardess.

Tip was made to carry wood from the forest, that the old woman might
boil her pot. He also worked in the corn-fields, hoeing and husking;
and he fed the pigs and milked the four-horned cow that was Mombi’s
especial pride.

But you must not suppose he worked all the time, for he felt that would
be bad for him. When sent to the forest Tip often climbed trees for
birds’ eggs or amused himself chasing the fleet white rabbits or
fishing in the brooks with bent pins. Then he would hastily gather his
armful of wood and carry it home. And when he was supposed to be
working in the corn-fields, and the tall stalks hid him from Mombi’s
view, Tip would often dig in the gopher holes, or if the mood seized
him—lie upon his back between the rows of corn and take a nap. So, by
taking care not to exhaust his strength, he grew as strong and rugged
as a boy may be.

Mombi’s curious magic often frightened her neighbors, and they treated
her shyly, yet respectfully, because of her weird powers. But Tip
frankly hated her, and took no pains to hide his feelings. Indeed, he
sometimes showed less respect for the old woman than he should have
done, considering she was his guardian.

There were pumpkins in Mombi’s corn-fields, lying golden red among the
rows of green stalks; and these had been planted and carefully tended
that the four-horned cow might eat of them in the winter time. But one
day, after the corn had all been cut and stacked, and Tip was carrying
the pumpkins to the stable, he took a notion to make a “Jack Lantern”
and try to give the old woman a fright with it.

[Illustration: image017]

So he selected a fine, big pumpkin—one with a lustrous, orange-red
color—and began carving it. With the point of his knife he made two
round eyes, a three-cornered nose, and a mouth shaped like a new moon.
The face, when completed, could not have been considered strictly
beautiful; but it wore a smile so big and broad, and was so Jolly in
expression, that even Tip laughed as he looked admiringly at his work.

The child had no playmates, so he did not know that boys often dig out
the inside of a “pumpkin-jack,” and in the space thus made put a
lighted candle to render the face more startling; but he conceived an
idea of his own that promised to be quite as effective. He decided to
manufacture the form of a man, who would wear this pumpkin head, and to
stand it in a place where old Mombi would meet it face to face.

“And then,” said Tip to himself, with a laugh, “she’ll squeal louder
than the brown pig does when I pull her tail, and shiver with fright
worse than I did last year when I had the ague!”

He had plenty of time to accomplish this task, for Mombi had gone to a
village—to buy groceries, she said—and it was a journey of at least two
days.

[Illustration: image019]

So he took his axe to the forest, and selected some stout, straight
saplings, which he cut down and trimmed of all their twigs and leaves.
From these he would make the arms, and legs, and feet of his man. For
the body he stripped a sheet of thick bark from around a big tree, and
with much labor fashioned it into a cylinder of about the right size,
pinning the edges together with wooden pegs. Then, whistling happily as
he worked, he carefully jointed the limbs and fastened them to the body
with pegs whittled into shape with his knife.

By the time this feat had been accomplished it began to grow dark, and
Tip remembered he must milk the cow and feed the pigs. So he picked up
his wooden man and carried it back to the house with him.

During the evening, by the light of the fire in the kitchen, Tip
carefully rounded all the edges of the joints and smoothed the rough
places in a neat and workmanlike manner. Then he stood the figure up
against the wall and admired it. It seemed remarkably tall, even for a
full-grown man; but that was a good point in a small boy’s eyes, and
Tip did not object at all to the size of his creation.

Next morning, when he looked at his work again, Tip saw he had
forgotten to give the dummy a neck, by means of which he might fasten
the pumpkinhead to the body. So he went again to the forest, which was
not far away, and chopped from a tree several pieces of wood with which
to complete his work. When he returned he fastened a cross-piece to the
upper end of the body, making a hole through the center to hold upright
the neck. The bit of wood which formed this neck was also sharpened at
the upper end, and when all was ready Tip put on the pumpkin head,
pressing it well down onto the neck, and found that it fitted very
well. The head could be turned to one side or the other, as he pleased,
and the hinges of the arms and legs allowed him to place the dummy in
any position he desired.

“Now, that,” declared Tip, proudly, “is really a very fine man, and it
ought to frighten several screeches out of old Mombi! But it would be
much more lifelike if it were properly dressed.”

To find clothing seemed no easy task; but Tip boldly ransacked the
great chest in which Mombi kept all her keepsakes and treasures, and at
the very bottom he discovered some purple trousers, a red shirt and a
pink vest which was dotted with white spots. These he carried away to
his man and succeeded, although the garments did not fit very well, in
dressing the creature in a jaunty fashion. Some knit stockings
belonging to Mombi and a much worn pair of his own shoes completed the
man’s apparel, and Tip was so delighted that he danced up and down and
laughed aloud in boyish ecstacy.

“I must give him a name!” he cried. “So good a man as this must surely
have a name. I believe,” he added, after a moment’s thought, “I will
name the fellow ‘Jack Pumpkinhead!’”

[Illustration: image023]

[Illustration: image024]

[Illustration: image025]




The Marvelous Powder of Life


After considering the matter carefully, Tip decided that the best place
to locate Jack would be at the bend in the road, a little way from the
house. So he started to carry his man there, but found him heavy and
rather awkward to handle. After dragging the creature a short distance
Tip stood him on his feet, and by first bending the joints of one leg,
and then those of the other, at the same time pushing from behind, the
boy managed to induce Jack to walk to the bend in the road. It was not
accomplished without a few tumbles, and Tip really worked harder than
he ever had in the fields or forest; but a love of mischief urged him
on, and it pleased him to test the cleverness of his workmanship.

“Jack’s all right, and works fine!” he said to himself, panting with
the unusual exertion. But just then he discovered the man’s left arm
had fallen off in the journey so he went back to find it, and
afterward, by whittling a new and stouter pin for the shoulder-joint,
he repaired the injury so successfully that the arm was stronger than
before. Tip also noticed that Jack’s pumpkin head had twisted around
until it faced his back; but this was easily remedied. When, at last,
the man was set up facing the turn in the path where old Mombi was to
appear, he looked natural enough to be a fair imitation of a Gillikin
farmer,—and unnatural enough to startle anyone that came on him
unawares.

As it was yet too early in the day to expect the old woman to return
home, Tip went down into the valley below the farm-house and began to
gather nuts from the trees that grew there.

However, old Mombi returned earlier than usual. She had met a crooked
wizard who resided in a lonely cave in the mountains, and had traded
several important secrets of magic with him. Having in this way secured
three new recipes, four magical powders and a selection of herbs of
wonderful power and potency, she hobbled home as fast as she could, in
order to test her new sorceries.

So intent was Mombi on the treasures she had gained that when she
turned the bend in the road and caught a glimpse of the man, she merely
nodded and said:

“Good evening, sir.”

But, a moment after, noting that the person did not move or reply, she
cast a shrewd glance into his face and discovered his pumpkin head
elaborately carved by Tip’s jack-knife.

“Heh!” ejaculated Mombi, giving a sort of grunt; “that rascally boy has
been playing tricks again! Very good! ve—ry _good!_ I’ll beat him
black-and-blue for trying to scare me in this fashion!”

Angrily she raised her stick to smash in the grinning pumpkin head of
the dummy; but a sudden thought made her pause, the uplifted stick left
motionless in the air.

“Why, here is a good chance to try my new powder!” said she, eagerly.
“And then I can tell whether that crooked wizard has fairly traded
secrets, or whether he has fooled me as wickedly as I fooled him.”

So she set down her basket and began fumbling in it for one of the
precious powders she had obtained.

While Mombi was thus occupied Tip strolled back, with his pockets full
of nuts, and discovered the old woman standing beside his man and
apparently not the least bit frightened by it.

At first he was generally disappointed; but the next moment he became
curious to know what Mombi was going to do. So he hid behind a hedge,
where he could see without being seen, and prepared to watch.

After some search the woman drew from her basket an old pepper-box,
upon the faded label of which the wizard had written with a
lead-pencil:

“Powder of Life.”

“Ah—here it is!” she cried, joyfully. “And now let us see if it is
potent. The stingy wizard didn’t give me much of it, but I guess
there’s enough for two or three doses.”

[Illustration: image029]

Tip was much surprised when he overheard this speech. Then he saw old
Mombi raise her arm and sprinkle the powder from the box over the
pumpkin head of his man Jack. She did this in the same way one would
pepper a baked potato, and the powder sifted down from Jack’s head and
scattered over the red shirt and pink waistcoat and purple trousers Tip
had dressed him in, and a portion even fell upon the patched and worn
shoes.

Then, putting the pepper-box back into the basket, Mombi lifted her
left hand, with its little finger pointed upward, and said:

“Weaugh!”

Then she lifted her right hand, with the thumb pointed upward, and
said:

“Teaugh!”

Then she lifted both hands, with all the fingers and thumbs spread out,
and cried:

“Peaugh!”

Jack Pumpkinhead stepped back a pace, at this, and said in a
reproachful voice:

“Don’t yell like that! Do you think I’m deaf?”

Old Mombi danced around him, frantic with delight.

“He lives!” she screamed: “He lives! he lives!”

Then she threw her stick into the air and caught it as it came down;
and she hugged herself with both arms, and tried to do a step of a jig;
and all the time she repeated, rapturously:

“He lives!—he lives!—he lives!”

Now you may well suppose that Tip observed all this with amazement.

At first he was so frightened and horrified that he wanted to run away,
but his legs trembled and shook so badly that he couldn’t. Then it
struck him as a very funny thing for Jack to come to life, especially
as the expression on his pumpkin face was so droll and comical it
excited laughter on the instant. So, recovering from his first fear,
Tip began to laugh; and the merry peals reached old Mombi’s ears and
made her hobble quickly to the hedge, where she seized Tip’s collar and
dragged him back to where she had left her basket and the pumpkinheaded
man.

“You naughty, sneaking, wicked boy!” she exclaimed, furiously: “I’ll
teach you to spy out my secrets and to make fun of me!”

“I wasn’t making fun of you,” protested Tip. “I was laughing at old
Pumpkinhead! Look at him! Isn’t he a picture, though?”

“I hope you are not reflecting on my personal appearance,” said Jack;
and it was so funny to hear his grave voice, while his face continued
to wear its jolly smile, that Tip again burst into a peal of laughter.

[Illustration: image032]

Even Mombi was not without a curious interest in the man her magic had
brought to life; for, after staring at him intently, she presently
asked:

“What do you know?”

“Well, that is hard to tell,” replied Jack. “For although I feel that I
know a tremendous lot, I am not yet aware how much there is in the
world to find out about. It will take me a little time to discover
whether I am very wise or very foolish.”

“To be sure,” said Mombi, thoughtfully.

“But what are you going to do with him, now he is alive?” asked Tip,
wondering.

“I must think it over,” answered Mombi. “But we must get home at once,
for it is growing dark. Help the Pumpkinhead to walk.”

“Never mind me,” said Jack; “I can walk as well as you can. Haven’t I
got legs and feet, and aren’t they jointed?”

“Are they?” asked the woman, turning to Tip.

“Of course they are; I made ’em myself,” returned the boy, with pride.

So they started for the house, but when they reached the farm yard old
Mombi led the pumpkin man to the cow stable and shut him up in an empty
stall, fastening the door securely on the outside.

“I’ve got to attend to you, first,” she said, nodding her head at Tip.

Hearing this, the boy became uneasy; for he knew Mombi had a bad and
revengeful heart, and would not hesitate to do any evil thing.

They entered the house. It was a round, domeshaped structure, as are
nearly all the farm houses in the Land of Oz.

Mombi bade the boy light a candle, while she put her basket in a
cupboard and hung her cloak on a peg. Tip obeyed quickly, for he was
afraid of her.

After the candle had been lighted Mombi ordered him to build a fire in
the hearth, and while Tip was thus engaged the old woman ate her
supper. When the flames began to crackle the boy came to her and asked
a share of the bread and cheese; but Mombi refused him.

“I’m hungry!” said Tip, in a sulky tone.

“You won’t be hungry long,” replied Mombi, with a grim look.

The boy didn’t like this speech, for it sounded like a threat; but he
happened to remember he had nuts in his pocket, so he cracked some of
those and ate them while the woman rose, shook the crumbs from her
apron, and hung above the fire a small black kettle.

Then she measured out equal parts of milk and vinegar and poured them
into the kettle. Next she produced several packets of herbs and powders
and began adding a portion of each to the contents of the kettle.
Occasionally she would draw near the candle and read from a yellow
paper the recipe of the mess she was concocting.

As Tip watched her his uneasiness increased.

“What is that for?” he asked.

“For you,” returned Mombi, briefly.

Tip wriggled around upon his stool and stared awhile at the kettle,
which was beginning to bubble. Then he would glance at the stern and
wrinkled features of the witch and wish he were any place but in that
dim and smoky kitchen, where even the shadows cast by the candle upon
the wall were enough to give one the horrors. So an hour passed away,
during which the silence was only broken by the bubbling of the pot and
the hissing of the flames.

Finally, Tip spoke again.

“Have I got to drink that stuff?” he asked, nodding toward the pot.

“Yes,” said Mombi.

“What’ll it do to me?” asked Tip.

“If it’s properly made,” replied Mombi, “it will change or transform
you into a marble statue.”

Tip groaned, and wiped the perspiration from his forehead with his
sleeve.

“I don’t want to be a marble statue!” he protested.

[Illustration: image037]

“That doesn’t matter I want you to be one,” said the old woman, looking
at him severely.

“What use’ll I be then?” asked Tip. “There won’t be any one to work for
you.”

“I’ll make the Pumpkinhead work for me,” said Mombi.

Again Tip groaned.

“Why don’t you change me into a goat, or a chicken?” he asked,
anxiously. “You can’t do anything with a marble statue.”

“Oh, yes, I can,” returned Mombi. “I’m going to plant a flower garden,
next Spring, and I’ll put you in the middle of it, for an ornament. I
wonder I haven’t thought of that before; you’ve been a bother to me for
years.”

At this terrible speech Tip felt the beads of perspiration starting all
over his body, but he sat still and shivered and looked anxiously at
the kettle.

“Perhaps it won’t work,” he mutttered, in a voice that sounded weak and
discouraged.

“Oh, I think it will,” answered Mombi, cheerfully. “I seldom make a
mistake.”

Again there was a period of silence a silence so long and gloomy that
when Mombi finally lifted the kettle from the fire it was close to
midnight.

“You cannot drink it until it has become quite cold,” announced the old
witch for in spite of the law she had acknowledged practising
witchcraft. “We must both go to bed now, and at daybreak I will call
you and at once complete your transformation into a marble statue.”

With this she hobbled into her room, bearing the steaming kettle with
her, and Tip heard her close and lock the door.

The boy did not go to bed, as he had been commanded to do, but still
sat glaring at the embers of the dying fire.

[Illustration: image038]

[Illustration: image039]




The Flight of the Fugitives


Tip reflected.

“It’s a hard thing, to be a marble statue,” he thought, rebelliously,
“and I’m not going to stand it. For years I’ve been a bother to her,
she says; so she’s going to get rid of me. Well, there’s an easier way
than to become a statue. No boy could have any fun forever standing in
the middle of a flower garden! I’ll run away, that’s what I’ll do—and I
may as well go before she makes me drink that nasty stuff in the
kettle.” He waited until the snores of the old witch announced she was
fast asleep, and then he arose softly and went to the cupboard to find
something to eat.

“No use starting on a journey without food,” he decided, searching upon
the narrow shelves.

He found some crusts of bread; but he had to look into Mombi’s basket
to find the cheese she had brought from the village. While turning over
the contents of the basket he came upon the pepper-box which contained
the “Powder of Life.”

“I may as well take this with me,” he thought, “or Mombi’ll be using it
to make more mischief with.” So he put the box in his pocket, together
with the bread and cheese.

Then he cautiously left the house and latched the door behind him.
Outside both moon and stars shone brightly, and the night seemed
peaceful and inviting after the close and ill-smelling kitchen.

“I’ll be glad to get away,” said Tip, softly; “for I never did like
that old woman. I wonder how I ever came to live with her.”

He was walking slowly toward the road when a thought made him pause.

“I don’t like to leave Jack Pumpkinhead to the tender mercies of old
Mombi,” he muttered. “And Jack belongs to me, for I made him even if
the old witch did bring him to life.”

He retraced his steps to the cow-stable and opened the door of the
stall where the pumpkin-headed man had been left.

Jack was standing in the middle of the stall, and by the moonlight Tip
could see he was smiling just as jovially as ever.

“Come on!” said the boy, beckoning.

“Where to?” asked Jack.

“You’ll know as soon as I do,” answered Tip, smiling sympathetically
into the pumpkin face.

“All we’ve got to do now is to tramp.”

“Very well,” returned Jack, and walked awkwardly out of the stable and
into the moonlight.

Tip turned toward the road and the man followed him. Jack walked with a
sort of limp, and occasionally one of the joints of his legs would turn
backward, instead of frontwise, almost causing him to tumble. But the
Pumpkinhead was quick to notice this, and began to take more pains to
step carefully; so that he met with few accidents.

[Illustration: image041]

Tip led him along the path without stopping an instant. They could not
go very fast, but they walked steadily; and by the time the moon sank
away and the sun peeped over the hills they had travelled so great a
distance that the boy had no reason to fear pursuit from the old witch.
Moreover, he had turned first into one path, and then into another, so
that should anyone follow them it would prove very difficult to guess
which way they had gone, or where to seek them.

Fairly satisfied that he had escaped—for a time, at least—being turned
into a marble statue, the boy stopped his companion and seated himself
upon a rock by the roadside.

“Let’s have some breakfast,” he said.

Jack Pumpkinhead watched Tip curiously, but refused to join in the
repast. “I don’t seem to be made the same way you are,” he said.

“I know you are not,” returned Tip; “for I made you.”

“Oh! Did you?” asked Jack.

[Illustration: image043]

“Certainly. And put you together. And carved your eyes and nose and
ears and mouth,” said Tip proudly. “And dressed you.”

Jack looked at his body and limbs critically.

“It strikes me you made a very good job of it,” he remarked.

“Just so-so,” replied Tip, modestly; for he began to see certain
defects in the construction of his man. “If I’d known we were going to
travel together I might have been a little more particular.”

“Why, then,” said the Pumpkinhead, in a tone that expressed surprise,
“you must be my creator my parent my father!”

“Or your inventor,” replied the boy with a laugh. “Yes, my son; I
really believe I am!”

“Then I owe you obedience,” continued the man, “and you owe
me—support.”

“That’s it, exactly”, declared Tip, jumping up. “So let us be off.”

“Where are we going?” asked Jack, when they had resumed their journey.

“I’m not exactly sure,” said the boy; “but I believe we are headed
South, and that will bring us, sooner or later, to the Emerald City.”

“What city is that?” enquired the Pumpkinhead.

“Why, it’s the center of the Land of Oz, and the biggest town in all
the country. I’ve never been there, myself, but I’ve heard all about
its history. It was built by a mighty and wonderful Wizard named Oz,
and everything there is of a green color—just as everything in this
Country of the Gillikins is of a purple color.”

“Is everything here purple?” asked Jack.

“Of course it is. Can’t you see?” returned the boy.

“I believe I must be color-blind,” said the Pumpkinhead, after staring
about him.

“Well, the grass is purple, and the trees are purple, and the houses
and fences are purple,” explained Tip. “Even the mud in the roads is
purple. But in the Emerald City everything is green that is purple
here. And in the Country of the Munchkins, over at the East, everything
is blue; and in the South country of the Quadlings everything is red;
and in the West country of the Winkies, where the Tin Woodman rules,
everything is yellow.”

“Oh!” said Jack. Then, after a pause, he asked: “Did you say a Tin
Woodman rules the Winkies?”

“Yes; he was one of those who helped Dorothy to destroy the Wicked
Witch of the West, and the Winkies were so grateful that they invited
him to become their ruler,—just as the people of the Emerald City
invited the Scarecrow to rule them.”

“Dear me!” said Jack. “I’m getting confused with all this history. Who
is the Scarecrow?”

“Another friend of Dorothy’s,” replied Tip.

“And who is Dorothy?”

“She was a girl that came here from Kansas, a place in the big, outside
World. She got blown to the Land of Oz by a cyclone, and while she was
here the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman accompanied her on her travels.”

“And where is she now?” inquired the Pumpkinhead.

“Glinda the Good, who rules the Quadlings, sent her home again,” said
the boy.

“Oh. And what became of the Scarecrow?”

“I told you. He rules the Emerald City,” answered Tip.

“I thought you said it was ruled by a wonderful Wizard,” objected Jack,
seeming more and more confused.

“Well, so I did. Now, pay attention, and I’ll explain it,” said Tip,
speaking slowly and looking the smiling Pumpkinhead squarely in the
eye. “Dorothy went to the Emerald City to ask the Wizard to send her
back to Kansas; and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman went with her.
But the Wizard couldn’t send her back, because he wasn’t so much of a
Wizard as he might have been. And then they got angry at the Wizard,
and threatened to expose him; so the Wizard made a big balloon and
escaped in it, and no one has ever seen him since.”

“Now, that is very interesting history,” said Jack, well pleased; “and
I understand it perfectly all but the explanation.”

“I’m glad you do,” responded Tip. “After the Wizard was gone, the
people of the Emerald City made His Majesty, the Scarecrow, their King;
and I have heard that he became a very popular ruler.”

“Are we going to see this queer King?” asked Jack, with interest.

“I think we may as well,” replied the boy; “unless you have something
better to do.”

“Oh, no, dear father,” said the Pumpkinhead. “I am quite willing to go
wherever you please.”

[Illustration: image047]

[Illustration: image048]

[Illustration: image049]




Tip Makes an Experiment in Magic


The boy, small and rather delicate in appearance seemed somewhat
embarrassed at being called “father” by the tall, awkward,
pumpkinheaded man, but to deny the relationship would involve another
long and tedious explanation; so he changed the subject by asking,
abruptly:

“Are you tired?”

“Of course not!” replied the other. “But,” he continued, after a pause,
“it is quite certain I shall wear out my wooden joints if I keep on
walking.”

Tip reflected, as they journeyed on, that this was true. He began to
regret that he had not constructed the wooden limbs more carefully and
substantially. Yet how could he ever have guessed that the man he had
made merely to scare old Mombi with would be brought to life by means
of a magical powder contained in an old pepper-box?

So he ceased to reproach himself, and began to think how he might yet
remedy the deficiencies of Jack’s weak joints.

While thus engaged they came to the edge of a wood, and the boy sat
down to rest upon an old sawhorse that some woodcutter had left there.

“Why don’t you sit down?” he asked the Pumpkinhead.

“Won’t it strain my joints?” inquired the other.

“Of course not. It’ll rest them,” declared the boy.

So Jack tried to sit down; but as soon as he bent his joints farther
than usual they gave way altogether, and he came clattering to the
ground with such a crash that Tip feared he was entirely ruined.

[Illustration: image050]

He rushed to the man, lifted him to his feet, straightened his arms and
legs, and felt of his head to see if by chance it had become cracked.
But Jack seemed to be in pretty good shape, after all, and Tip said to
him:

“I guess you’d better remain standing, hereafter. It seems the safest
way.”

“Very well, dear father.” just as you say, replied the smiling Jack,
who had been in no wise confused by his tumble.

Tip sat down again. Presently the Pumpkinhead asked:

“What is that thing you are sitting on?”

“Oh, this is a horse,” replied the boy, carelessly.

“What is a horse?” demanded Jack.

“A horse? Why, there are two kinds of horses,” returned Tip, slightly
puzzled how to explain. “One kind of horse is alive, and has four legs
and a head and a tail. And people ride upon its back.”

“I understand,” said Jack, cheerfully “That’s the kind of horse you are
now sitting on.”

“No, it isn’t,” answered Tip, promptly.

“Why not? That one has four legs, and a head, and a tail.” Tip looked
at the saw-horse more carefully, and found that the Pumpkinhead was
right. The body had been formed from a tree-trunk, and a branch had
been left sticking up at one end that looked very much like a tail. In
the other end were two big knots that resembled eyes, and a place had
been chopped away that might easily be mistaken for the horse’s mouth.
As for the legs, they were four straight limbs cut from trees and stuck
fast into the body, being spread wide apart so that the saw-horse would
stand firmly when a log was laid across it to be sawed.

“This thing resembles a real horse more than I imagined,” said Tip,
trying to explain. “But a real horse is alive, and trots and prances
and eats oats, while this is nothing more than a dead horse, made of
wood, and used to saw logs upon.”

“If it were alive, wouldn’t it trot, and prance, and eat oats?”
inquired the Pumpkinhead.

“It would trot and prance, perhaps; but it wouldn’t eat oats,” replied
the boy, laughing at the idea. “And of course it can’t ever be alive,
because it is made of wood.”

“So am I,” answered the man.

Tip looked at him in surprise.

“Why, so you are!” he exclaimed. “And the magic powder that brought you
to life is here in my pocket.”

[Illustration: image053]

He brought out the pepper box, and eyed it curiously.

“I wonder,” said he, musingly, “if it would bring the saw-horse to
life.”

“If it would,” returned Jack, calmly for nothing seemed to surprise him
“I could ride on its back, and that would save my joints from wearing
out.”

“I’ll try it!” cried the boy, jumping up. “But I wonder if I can
remember the words old Mombi said, and the way she held her hands up.”

He thought it over for a minute, and as he had watched carefully from
the hedge every motion of the old witch, and listened to her words, he
believed he could repeat exactly what she had said and done.

So he began by sprinkling some of the magic Powder of Life from the
pepper-box upon the body of the saw-horse. Then he lifted his left
hand, with the little finger pointing upward, and said: “Weaugh!”

“What does that mean, dear father?” asked Jack, curiously.

“I don’t know,” answered Tip. Then he lifted his right hand, with the
thumb pointing upward and said: “Teaugh!”

“What’s that, dear father?” inquired Jack.

“It means you must keep quiet!” replied the boy, provoked at being
interrupted at so important a moment.

“How fast I am learning!” remarked the Pumpkinhead, with his eternal
smile.

Tip now lifted both hands above his head, with all the fingers and
thumbs spread out, and cried in a loud voice: “Peaugh!”

Immediately the saw-horse moved, stretched its legs, yawned with its
chopped-out mouth, and shook a few grains of the powder off its back.
The rest of the powder seemed to have vanished into the body of the
horse.

“Good!” called Jack, while the boy looked on in astonishment. “You are
a very clever sorcerer, dear father!”

[Illustration: image055]

[Illustration: image056]

[Illustration: image057]




The Awakening of the Saw-horse


The Saw-Horse, finding himself alive, seemed even more astonished than
Tip. He rolled his knotty eyes from side to side, taking a first
wondering view of the world in which he had now so important an
existence. Then he tried to look at himself; but he had, indeed, no
neck to turn; so that in the endeavor to see his body he kept circling
around and around, without catching even a glimpse of it. His legs were
stiff and awkward, for there were no knee-joints in them; so that
presently he bumped against Jack Pumpkinhead and sent that personage
tumbling upon the moss that lined the roadside.

Tip became alarmed at this accident, as well as at the persistence of
the Saw-Horse in prancing around in a circle; so he called out:

“Whoa! Whoa, there!”

The Saw-Horse paid no attention whatever to this command, and the next
instant brought one of his wooden legs down upon Tip’s foot so forcibly
that the boy danced away in pain to a safer distance, from where he
again yelled:

“Whoa! Whoa, I say!”

Jack had now managed to raise himself to a sitting position, and he
looked at the Saw-Horse with much interest.

“I don’t believe the animal can hear you,” he remarked.

“I shout loud enough, don’t I?” answered Tip, angrily.

“Yes; but the horse has no ears,” said the smiling Pumpkinhead.

“Sure enough!” exclaimed Tip, noting the fact for the first time. “How,
then, am I going to stop him?”

But at that instant the Saw-Horse stopped himself, having concluded it
was impossible to see his own body. He saw Tip, however, and came close
to the boy to observe him more fully.

It was really comical to see the creature walk; for it moved the legs
on its right side together, and those on its left side together, as a
pacing horse does; and that made its body rock sidewise, like a cradle.

Tip patted it upon the head, and said “Good boy! Good Boy!” in a
coaxing tone; and the Saw-Horse pranced away to examine with its
bulging eyes the form of Jack Pumpkinhead.

“I must find a halter for him,” said Tip; and having made a search in
his pocket he produced a roll of strong cord. Unwinding this, he
approached the Saw-Horse and tied the cord around its neck, afterward
fastening the other end to a large tree. The Saw-Horse, not
understanding the action, stepped backward and snapped the string
easily; but it made no attempt to run away.

“He’s stronger than I thought,” said the boy, “and rather obstinate,
too.”

“Why don’t you make him some ears?” asked Jack. “Then you can tell him
what to do.”

“That’s a splendid idea!” said Tip. “How did you happen to think of
it?”

“Why, I didn’t think of it,” answered the Pumpkinhead; “I didn’t need
to, for it’s the simplest and easiest thing to do.”

So Tip got out his knife and fashioned some ears out of the bark of a
small tree.

“I mustn’t make them too big,” he said, as he whittled, “or our horse
would become a donkey.”

“How is that?” inquired Jack, from the roadside.

“Why, a horse has bigger ears than a man; and a donkey has bigger ears
than a horse,” explained Tip.

“Then, if my ears were longer, would I be a horse?” asked Jack.

“My friend,” said Tip, gravely, “you’ll never be anything but a
Pumpkinhead, no matter how big your ears are.”

“Oh,” returned Jack, nodding; “I think I understand.”

“If you do, you’re a wonder,” remarked the boy “but there’s no harm in
_thinking_ you understand. I guess these ears are ready now. Will you
hold the horse while I stick them on?”

“Certainly, if you’ll help me up,” said Jack.

So Tip raised him to his feet, and the Pumpkinhead went to the horse
and held its head while the boy bored two holes in it with his
knife-blade and inserted the ears.

“They make him look very handsome,” said Jack, admiringly.

But those words, spoken close to the Saw-Horse, and being the first
sounds he had ever heard, so startled the animal that he made a bound
forward and tumbled Tip on one side and Jack on the other. Then he
continued to rush forward as if frightened by the clatter of his own
foot-steps.

“Whoa!” shouted Tip, picking himself up; “whoa! you idiot whoa!” The
Saw-Horse would probably have paid no attention to this, but just then
it stepped a leg into a gopher-hole and stumbled head-over-heels to the
ground, where it lay upon its back, frantically waving its four legs in
the air.

Tip ran up to it.

“You’re a nice sort of a horse, I must say!” he exclaimed. “Why didn’t
you stop when I yelled ‘whoa?’”

“Does ‘whoa’ mean to stop?” asked the Saw-Horse, in a surprised voice,
as it rolled its eyes upward to look at the boy.

“Of course it does,” answered Tip.

“And a hole in the ground means to stop, also, doesn’t it?” continued
the horse.

“To be sure; unless you step over it,” said Tip.

“What a strange place this is,” the creature exclaimed, as if amazed.
“What am I doing here, anyway?”

“Why, I’ve brought you to life,” answered the boy “but it won’t hurt
you any, if you mind me and do as I tell you.”

“Then I will do as you tell me,” replied the Saw-Horse, humbly. “But
what happened to me, a moment ago? I don’t seem to be just right,
someway.”

[Illustration: image062]

“You’re upside down,” explained Tip. “But just keep those legs still a
minute and I’ll set you right side up again.”

“How many sides have I?” asked the creature, wonderingly.

“Several,” said Tip, briefly. “But do keep those legs still.”

The Saw-Horse now became quiet, and held its legs rigid; so that Tip,
after several efforts, was able to roll him over and set him upright.

“Ah, I seem all right now,” said the queer animal, with a sigh.

“One of your ears is broken,” Tip announced, after a careful
examination. “I’ll have to make a new one.”

Then he led the Saw-Horse back to where Jack was vainly struggling to
regain his feet, and after assisting the Pumpkinhead to stand upright
Tip whittled out a new ear and fastened it to the horse’s head.

“Now,” said he, addressing his steed, “pay attention to what I’m going
to tell you. ‘Whoa!’ means to stop; ‘Get-Up!’ means to walk forward;
‘Trot!’ means to go as fast as you can. Understand?”

“I believe I do,” returned the horse.

“Very good. We are all going on a journey to the Emerald City, to see
His Majesty, the Scarecrow; and Jack Pumpkinhead is going to ride on
your back, so he won’t wear out his joints.”

“I don’t mind,” said the Saw-Horse. “Anything that suits you suits me.”

Then Tip assisted Jack to get upon the horse.

“Hold on tight,” he cautioned, “or you may fall off and crack your
pumpkin head.”

“That would be horrible!” said Jack, with a shudder. “What shall I hold
on to?”

“Why, hold on to his ears,” replied Tip, after a moment’s hesitation.

“Don’t do that!” remonstrated the Saw-Horse; “for then I can’t hear.”

That seemed reasonable, so Tip tried to think of something else.

“I’ll fix it!” said he, at length. He went into the wood and cut a
short length of limb from a young, stout tree. One end of this he
sharpened to a point, and then he dug a hole in the back of the
Saw-Horse, just behind its head. Next he brought a piece of rock from
the road and hammered the post firmly into the animal’s back.

“Stop! Stop!” shouted the horse; “you’re jarring me terribly.”

[Illustration: image065]

“Does it hurt?” asked the boy.

“Not exactly hurt,” answered the animal; “but it makes me quite nervous
to be jarred.”

“Well, it’s all over now” said Tip, encouragingly. “Now, Jack, be sure
to hold fast to this post and then you can’t fall off and get smashed.”

So Jack held on tight, and Tip said to the horse:

“Get up.”

The obedient creature at once walked forward, rocking from side to side
as he raised his feet from the ground.

Tip walked beside the Saw-Horse, quite content with this addition to
their party. Presently he began to whistle.

“What does that sound mean?” asked the horse.

“Don’t pay any attention to it,” said Tip. “I’m just whistling, and
that only means I’m pretty well satisfied.”

“I’d whistle myself, if I could push my lips together,” remarked Jack.
“I fear, dear father, that in some respects I am sadly lacking.”

[Illustration: image067]

After journeying on for some distance the narrow path they were
following turned into a broad roadway, paved with yellow brick. By the
side of the road Tip noticed a sign-post that read:

“NINE MILES TO THE EMERALD CITY.”

But it was now growing dark, so he decided to camp for the night by the
roadside and to resume the journey next morning by daybreak. He led the
Saw-Horse to a grassy mound upon which grew several bushy trees, and
carefully assisted the Pumpkinhead to alight.

“I think I’ll lay you upon the ground, overnight,” said the boy. “You
will be safer that way.”

“How about me?” asked the Saw-Horse.

“It won’t hurt you to stand,” replied Tip; “and, as you can’t sleep,
you may as well watch out and see that no one comes near to disturb
us.”

Then the boy stretched himself upon the grass beside the Pumpkinhead,
and being greatly wearied by the journey was soon fast asleep.

[Illustration: image069]

[Illustration: image070]

[Illustration: image071]




Jack Pumpkinhead’s Ride to the Emerald City


At daybreak Tip was awakened by the Pumpkinhead. He rubbed the sleep
from his eyes, bathed in a little brook, and then ate a portion of his
bread and cheese. Having thus prepared for a new day the boy said:

“Let us start at once. Nine miles is quite a distance, but we ought to
reach the Emerald City by noon if no accidents happen.” So the
Pumpkinhead was again perched upon the back of the Saw-Horse and the
journey was resumed.

Tip noticed that the purple tint of the grass and trees had now faded
to a dull lavender, and before long this lavender appeared to take on a
greenish tinge that gradually brightened as they drew nearer to the
great City where the Scarecrow ruled.

The little party had traveled but a short two miles upon their way when
the road of yellow brick was parted by a broad and swift river. Tip was
puzzled how to cross over; but after a time he discovered a man in a
ferry-boat approaching from the other side of the stream.

When the man reached the bank Tip asked:

“Will you row us to the other side?”

“Yes, if you have money,” returned the ferryman, whose face looked
cross and disagreeable.

“But I have no money,” said Tip.

“None at all?” inquired the man.

“None at all,” answered the boy.

“Then I’ll not break my back rowing you over,” said the ferryman,
decidedly.

“What a nice man!” remarked the Pumpkinhead, smilingly.

The ferryman stared at him, but made no reply. Tip was trying to think,
for it was a great disappointment to him to find his journey so
suddenly brought to an end.

“I must certainly get to the Emerald City,” he said to the boatman;
“but how can I cross the river if you do not take me?”

The man laughed, and it was not a nice laugh.

“That wooden horse will float,” said he; “and you can ride him across.
As for the pumpkinheaded loon who accompanies you, let him sink or swim
it won’t matter greatly which.”

[Illustration: image073]

“Don’t worry about me,” said Jack, smiling pleasantly upon the crabbed
ferryman; “I’m sure I ought to float beautifully.”

Tip thought the experiment was worth making, and the Saw-Horse, who did
not know what danger meant, offered no objections whatever. So the boy
led it down into the water and climbed upon its back. Jack also waded
in up to his knees and grasped the tail of the horse so that he might
keep his pumpkin head above the water.

“Now,” said Tip, instructing the Saw-Horse, “if you wiggle your legs
you will probably swim; and if you swim we shall probably reach the
other side.”

The Saw-Horse at once began to wiggle its legs, which acted as oars and
moved the adventurers slowly across the river to the opposite side. So
successful was the trip that presently they were climbing, wet and
dripping, up the grassy bank.

Tip’s trouser-legs and shoes were thoroughly soaked; but the Saw-Horse
had floated so perfectly that from his knees up the boy was entirely
dry. As for the Pumpkinhead, every stitch of his gorgeous clothing
dripped water.

“The sun will soon dry us,” said Tip “and, anyhow, we are now safely
across, in spite of the ferryman, and can continue our journey.”

“I didn’t mind swimming, at all,” remarked the horse.

“Nor did I,” added Jack.

They soon regained the road of yellow brick, which proved to be a
continuation of the road they had left on the other side, and then Tip
once more mounted the Pumpkinhead upon the back of the Saw-Horse.

“If you ride fast,” said he, “the wind will help to dry your clothing.
I will hold on to the horse’s tail and run after you. In this way we
all will become dry in a very short time.”

“Then the horse must step lively,” said Jack.

“I’ll do my best,” returned the Saw-Horse, cheerfully.

Tip grasped the end of the branch that served as tail to the Saw-Horse,
and called loudly: “Get-up!”

The horse started at a good pace, and Tip followed behind. Then he
decided they could go faster, so he shouted: “Trot!”

[Illustration: image075]

Now, the Saw-Horse remembered that this word was the command to go as
fast as he could; so he began rocking along the road at a tremendous
pace, and Tip had hard work—running faster than he ever had before in
his life—to keep his feet.

Soon he was out of breath, and although he wanted to call “Whoa!” to
the horse, he found he could not get the word out of his throat. Then
the end of the tail he was clutching, being nothing more than a dead
branch, suddenly broke away, and the next minute the boy was rolling in
the dust of the road, while the horse and its pumpkin-headed rider
dashed on and quickly disappeared in the distance.

By the time Tip had picked himself up and cleared the dust from his
throat so he could say “Whoa!” there was no further need of saying it,
for the horse was long since out of sight.

So he did the only sensible thing he could do. He sat down and took a
good rest, and afterward began walking along the road.

“Some time I will surely overtake them,” he reflected; “for the road
will end at the gates of the Emerald City, and they can go no further
than that.”

Meantime Jack was holding fast to the post and the Saw-Horse was
tearing along the road like a racer. Neither of them knew Tip was left
behind, for the Pumpkinhead did not look around and the Saw-Horse
couldn’t.

As he rode, Jack noticed that the grass and trees had become a bright
emerald-green in color, so he guessed they were nearing the Emerald
City even before the tall spires and domes came into sight.

At length a high wall of green stone, studded thick with emeralds,
loomed up before them; and fearing the Saw-Horse would not know enough
to stop and so might smash them both against this wall, Jack ventured
to cry “Whoa!” as loud as he could.

So suddenly did the horse obey that had it not been for his post Jack
would have been pitched off head foremost, and his beautiful face
ruined.

“That was a fast ride, dear father!” he exclaimed; and then, hearing no
reply, he turned around and discovered for the first time that Tip was
not there.

This apparent desertion puzzled the Pumpkinhead, and made him uneasy.
And while he was wondering what had become of the boy, and what he
ought to do next under such trying circumstances, the gateway in the
green wall opened and a man came out.

This man was short and round, with a fat face that seemed remarkably
good-natured. He was clothed all in green and wore a high, peaked green
hat upon his head and green spectacles over his eyes. Bowing before the
Pumpkinhead he said:

“I am the Guardian of the Gates of the Emerald City. May I inquire who
you are, and what is your business?”

“My name is Jack Pumpkinhead,” returned the other, smilingly; “but as
to my business, I haven’t the least idea in the world what it is.”

The Guardian of the Gates looked surprised, and shook his head as if
dissatisfied with the reply.

“What are you, a man or a pumpkin?” he asked, politely.

“Both, if you please,” answered Jack.

“And this wooden horse—is it alive?” questioned the Guardian.

The horse rolled one knotty eye upward and winked at Jack. Then it gave
a prance and brought one leg down on the Guardian’s toes.

“Ouch!” cried the man; “I’m sorry I asked that question. But the answer
is most convincing. Have you any errand, sir, in the Emerald City?”

“It seems to me that I have,” replied the Pumpkinhead, seriously; “but
I cannot think what it is. My father knows all about it, but he is not
here.”

“This is a strange affair very strange!” declared the Guardian. “But
you seem harmless. Folks do not smile so delightfully when they mean
mischief.”

“As for that,” said Jack, “I cannot help my smile, for it is carved on
my face with a jack-knife.”

“Well, come with me into my room,” resumed the Guardian, “and I will
see what can be done for you.”

So Jack rode the Saw-Horse through the gateway into a little room built
into the wall. The Guardian pulled a bell-cord, and presently a very
tall soldier—clothed in a green uniform—entered from the opposite door.
This soldier carried a long green gun over his shoulder and had lovely
green whiskers that fell quite to his knees. The Guardian at once
addressed him, saying:

“Here is a strange gentleman who doesn’t know why he has come to the
Emerald City, or what he wants. Tell me, what shall we do with him?”

The Soldier with the Green Whiskers looked at Jack with much care and
curiosity. Finally he shook his head so positively that little waves
rippled down his whiskers, and then he said:

“I must take him to His Majesty, the Scarecrow.”

“But what will His Majesty, the Scarecrow, do with him?” asked the
Guardian of the Gates.

“That is His Majesty’s business,” returned the soldier. “I have
troubles enough of my own. All outside troubles must be turned over to
His Majesty. So put the spectacles on this fellow, and I’ll take him to
the royal palace.”

So the Guardian opened a big box of spectacles and tried to fit a pair
to Jack’s great round eyes.

“I haven’t a pair in stock that will really cover those eyes up,” said
the little man, with a sigh; “and your head is so big that I shall be
obliged to tie the spectacles on.”

“But why need I wear spectacles?” asked Jack.

[Illustration: image081]

“It’s the fashion here,” said the Soldier, “and they will keep you from
being blinded by the glitter and glare of the gorgeous Emerald City.”

“Oh!” exclaimed Jack. “Tie them on, by all means. I don’t wish to be
blinded.”

“Nor I!” broke in the Saw-Horse; so a pair of green spectacles was
quickly fastened over the bulging knots that served it for eyes.

Then the Soldier with the Green Whiskers led them through the inner
gate and they at once found themselves in the main street of the
magnificent Emerald City.

Sparkling green gems ornamented the fronts of the beautiful houses and
the towers and turrets were all faced with emeralds. Even the green
marble pavement glittered with precious stones, and it was indeed a
grand and marvelous sight to one who beheld it for the first time.

However, the Pumpkinhead and the Saw-Horse, knowing nothing of wealth
and beauty, paid little attention to the wonderful sights they saw
through their green spectacles. They calmly followed after the green
soldier and scarcely noticed the crowds of green people who stared at
them in surprise. When a green dog ran out and barked at them the
Saw-Horse promptly kicked at it with its wooden leg and sent the little
animal howling into one of the houses; but nothing more serious than
this happened to interrupt their progress to the royal palace.

The Pumpkinhead wanted to ride up the green marble steps and straight
into the Scarecrow’s presence; but the soldier would not permit that.
So Jack dismounted, with much difficulty, and a servant led the
Saw-Horse around to the rear while the Soldier with the Green Whiskers
escorted the Pumpkinhead into the palace, by the front entrance.

The stranger was left in a handsomely furnished waiting room while the
soldier went to announce him. It so happened that at this hour His
Majesty was at leisure and greatly bored for want of something to do,
so he ordered his visitor to be shown at once into his throne room.

Jack felt no fear or embarrassment at meeting the ruler of this
magnificent city, for he was entirely ignorant of all worldly customs.
But when he entered the room and saw for the first time His Majesty the
Scarecrow seated upon his glittering throne, he stopped short in
amazement.

[Illustration: image084]

[Illustration: image085]




His Majesty the Scarecrow


I suppose every reader of this book knows what a scarecrow is; but Jack
Pumpkinhead, never having seen such a creation, was more surprised at
meeting the remarkable King of the Emerald City than by any other one
experience of his brief life.

His Majesty the Scarecrow was dressed in a suit of faded blue clothes,
and his head was merely a small sack stuffed with straw, upon which
eyes, ears, a nose and a mouth had been rudely painted to represent a
face. The clothes were also stuffed with straw, and that so unevenly or
carelessly that his Majesty’s legs and arms seemed more bumpy than was
necessary. Upon his hands were gloves with long fingers, and these were
padded with cotton. Wisps of straw stuck out from the monarch’s coat
and also from his neck and boot-tops. Upon his head he wore a heavy
golden crown set thick with sparkling jewels, and the weight of this
crown caused his brow to sag in wrinkles, giving a thoughtful
expression to the painted face. Indeed, the crown alone betokened
majesty; in all else the, Scarecrow King was but a simple
scarecrow—flimsy, awkward, and unsubstantial.

But if the strange appearance of his Majesty the Scarecrow seemed
startling to Jack, no less wonderful was the form of the Pumpkinhead to
the Scarecrow. The purple trousers and pink waistcoat and red shirt
hung loosely over the wooden joints Tip had manufactured, and the
carved face on the pumpkin grinned perpetually, as if its wearer
considered life the jolliest thing imaginable.

At first, indeed, His Majesty thought his queer visitor was laughing at
him, and was inclined to resent such a liberty; but it was not without
reason that the Scarecrow had attained the reputation of being the
wisest personage in the Land of Oz. He made a more careful examination
of his visitor, and soon discovered that Jack’s features were carved
into a smile and that he could not look grave if he wished to.

[Illustration: image087]

The King was the first to speak. After regarding Jack for some minutes
he said, in a tone of wonder:

“Where on earth did you come from, and how do you happen to be alive?”

“I beg your Majesty’s pardon,” returned the Pumpkinhead; “but I do not
understand you.”

“What don’t you understand?” asked the Scarecrow.

“Why, I don’t understand your language. You see, I came from the
Country of the Gillikins, so that I am a foreigner.”

“Ah, to be sure!” exclaimed the Scarecrow. “I myself speak the language
of the Munchkins, which is also the language of the Emerald City. But
you, I suppose, speak the language of the Pumpkinheads?”

“Exactly so, your Majesty” replied the other, bowing; “so it will be
impossible for us to understand one another.”

“That is unfortunate, certainly,” said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully. “We
must have an interpreter.”

“What is an interpreter?” asked Jack.

“A person who understands both my language and your own. When I say
anything, the interpreter can tell you what I mean; and when you say
anything the interpreter can tell me what _you_ mean. For the
interpreter can speak both languages as well as understand them.”

“That is certainly clever,” said Jack, greatly pleased at finding so
simple a way out of the difficulty.

So the Scarecrow commanded the Soldier with the Green Whiskers to
search among his people until he found one who understood the language
of the Gillikins as well as the language of the Emerald City, and to
bring that person to him at once.

When the Soldier had departed the Scarecrow said:

“Won’t you take a chair while we are waiting?”

[Illustration: image090]

“Your Majesty forgets that I cannot understand you,” replied the
Pumpkinhead. “If you wish me to sit down you must make a sign for me to
do so.” The Scarecrow came down from his throne and rolled an armchair
to a position behind the Pumpkinhead. Then he gave Jack a sudden push
that sent him sprawling upon the cushions in so awkward a fashion that
he doubled up like a jackknife, and had hard work to untangle himself.

“Did you understand that sign?” asked His Majesty, politely.

“Perfectly,” declared Jack, reaching up his arms to turn his head to
the front, the pumpkin having twisted around upon the stick that
supported it.

“You seem hastily made,” remarked the Scarecrow, watching Jack’s
efforts to straighten himself.

“Not more so than your Majesty,” was the frank reply.

“There is this difference between us,” said the Scarecrow, “that
whereas I will bend, but not break, you will break, but not bend.”

At this moment the soldier returned leading a young girl by the hand.
She seemed very sweet and modest, having a pretty face and beautiful
green eyes and hair. A dainty green silk skirt reached to her knees,
showing silk stockings embroidered with pea-pods, and green satin
slippers with bunches of lettuce for decorations instead of bows or
buckles. Upon her silken waist clover leaves were embroidered, and she
wore a jaunty little jacket trimmed with sparkling emeralds of a
uniform size.

“Why, it’s little Jellia Jamb!” exclaimed the Scarecrow, as the green
maiden bowed her pretty head before him. “Do you understand the
language of the Gillikins, my dear?”

“Yes, your Majesty,” she answered, “for I was born in the North
Country.”

“Then you shall be our interpreter,” said the Scarecrow, “and explain
to this Pumpkinhead all that I say, and also explain to me all that
_he_ says. Is this arrangement satisfactory?” he asked, turning toward
his guest.

“Very satisfactory indeed,” was the reply.

“Then ask him, to begin with,” resumed the Scarecrow, turning to
Jellia, “what brought him to the Emerald City”

But instead of this the girl, who had been staring at Jack, said to
him:

“You are certainly a wonderful creature. Who made you?”

“A boy named Tip,” answered Jack.

“What does he say?” inquired the Scarecrow. “My ears must have deceived
me. What did he say?”

“He says that your Majesty’s brains seem to have come loose,” replied
the girl, demurely.

The Scarecrow moved uneasily upon his throne, and felt of his head with
his left hand.

“What a fine thing it is to understand two different languages,” he
said, with a perplexed sigh. “Ask him, my dear, if he has any objection
to being put in jail for insulting the ruler of the Emerald City.”

“I didn’t insult you!” protested Jack, indignantly.

“Tut—tut!” cautioned the Scarecrow “wait, until Jellia translates my
speech. What have we got an interpreter for, if you break out in this
rash way?”

“All right, I’ll wait,” replied the Pumpkinhead, in a surly
tone—although his face smiled as genially as ever. “Translate the
speech, young woman.”

“His Majesty inquires if you are hungry,” said Jellia.

“Oh, not at all!” answered Jack, more pleasantly, “for it is impossible
for me to eat.”

“It’s the same way with me,” remarked the Scarecrow. “What did he say,
Jellia, my dear?”

“He asked if you were aware that one of your eyes is painted larger
than the other,” said the girl, mischievously.

[Illustration: image093]

“Don’t you believe her, your Majesty,” cried Jack.

“Oh, I don’t,” answered the Scarecrow, calmly. Then, casting a sharp
look at the girl, he asked:

“Are you quite certain you understand the languages of both the
Gillikins and the Munchkins?”

“Quite certain, your Majesty,” said Jellia Jamb, trying hard not to
laugh in the face of royalty.

“Then how is it that I seem to understand them myself?” inquired the
Scarecrow.

“Because they are one and the same!” declared the girl, now laughing
merrily. “Does not your Majesty know that in all the land of Oz but one
language is spoken?”

“Is it indeed so?” cried the Scarecrow, much relieved to hear this;
“then I might easily have been my own interpreter!”

“It was all my fault, your Majesty,” said Jack, looking rather foolish,
“I thought we must surely speak different languages, since we came from
different countries.”

“This should be a warning to you never to think,” returned the
Scarecrow, severely. “For unless one can think wisely it is better to
remain a dummy—which you most certainly are.”

“I am!—I surely am!” agreed the Pumpkinhead.

“It seems to me,” continued the Scarecrow, more mildly, “that your
manufacturer spoiled some good pies to create an indifferent man.”

“I assure your Majesty that I did not ask to be created,” answered
Jack.

“Ah! It was the same in my case,” said the King, pleasantly. “And so,
as we differ from all ordinary people, let us become friends.”

“With all my heart!” exclaimed Jack.

“What! Have you a heart?” asked the Scarecrow, surprised.

“No; that was only imaginative—I might say, a figure of speech,” said
the other.

“Well, your most prominent figure seems to be a figure of wood; so I
must beg you to restrain an imagination which, having no brains, you
have no right to exercise,” suggested the Scarecrow, warningly.

“To be sure!” said Jack, without in the least comprehending.

His Majesty then dismissed Jellia Jamb and the Soldier with the Green
Whiskers, and when they were gone he took his new friend by the arm and
led him into the courtyard to play a game of quoits.

[Illustration: image097]

[Illustration: image098]

[Illustration: image099]




Gen. Jinjur’s Army of Revolt


Tip was so anxious to rejoin his man Jack and the Saw-Horse that he
walked a full half the distance to the Emerald City without stopping to
rest. Then he discovered that he was hungry and the crackers and cheese
he had provided for the Journey had all been eaten.

While wondering what he should do in this emergency he came upon a girl
sitting by the roadside. She wore a costume that struck the boy as
being remarkably brilliant: her silken waist being of emerald green and
her skirt of four distinct colors—blue in front, yellow at the left
side, red at the back and purple at the right side. Fastening the waist
in front were four buttons—the top one blue, the next yellow, a third
red and the last purple.

[Illustration: image100]

The splendor of this dress was almost barbaric; so Tip was fully
justified in staring at the gown for some moments before his eyes were
attracted by the pretty face above it. Yes, the face was pretty enough,
he decided; but it wore an expression of discontent coupled to a shade
of defiance or audacity.

While the boy stared the girl looked upon him calmly. A lunch basket
stood beside her, and she held a dainty sandwich in one hand and a
hard-boiled egg in the other, eating with an evident appetite that
aroused Tip’s sympathy.

He was just about to ask a share of the luncheon when the girl stood up
and brushed the crumbs from her lap.

“There!” said she; “it is time for me to go. Carry that basket for me
and help yourself to its contents if you are hungry.”

Tip seized the basket eagerly and began to eat, following for a time
the strange girl without bothering to ask questions. She walked along
before him with swift strides, and there was about her an air of
decision and importance that led him to suspect she was some great
personage.

Finally, when he had satisfied his hunger, he ran up beside her and
tried to keep pace with her swift footsteps—a very difficult feat, for
she was much taller than he, and evidently in a hurry.

“Thank you very much for the sandwiches,” said Tip, as he trotted
along. “May I ask your name?”

“I am General Jinjur,” was the brief reply.

“Oh!” said the boy surprised. “What sort of a General?”

“I command the Army of Revolt in this war,” answered the General, with
unnecessary sharpness.

“Oh!” he again exclaimed. “I didn’t know there was a war.”

“You were not supposed to know it,” she returned, “for we have kept it
a secret; and considering that our army is composed entirely of girls,”
she added, with some pride, “it is surely a remarkable thing that our
Revolt is not yet discovered.”

“It is, indeed,” acknowledged Tip. “But where is your army?”

“About a mile from here,” said General Jinjur. “The forces have
assembled from all parts of the Land of Oz, at my express command. For
this is the day we are to conquer His Majesty the Scarecrow, and wrest
from him the throne. The Army of Revolt only awaits my coming to march
upon the Emerald City.”

“Well!” declared Tip, drawing a long breath, “this is certainly a
surprising thing! May I ask why you wish to conquer His Majesty the
Scarecrow?”

“Because the Emerald City has been ruled by men long enough, for one
reason,” said the girl.

“Moreover, the City glitters with beautiful gems, which might far
better be used for rings, bracelets and necklaces; and there is enough
money in the King’s treasury to buy every girl in our Army a dozen new
gowns. So we intend to conquer the City and run the government to suit
ourselves.”

Jinjur spoke these words with an eagerness and decision that proved she
was in earnest.

“But war is a terrible thing,” said Tip, thoughtfully.

“This war will be pleasant,” replied the girl, cheerfully.

“Many of you will be slain!” continued the boy, in an awed voice.

“Oh, no”, said Jinjur. “What man would oppose a girl, or dare to harm
her? And there is not an ugly face in my entire Army.”

Tip laughed.

“Perhaps you are right,” said he. “But the Guardian of the Gate is
considered a faithful Guardian, and the King’s Army will not let the
City be conquered without a struggle.”

“The Army is old and feeble,” replied General Jinjur, scornfully. “His
strength has all been used to grow whiskers, and his wife has such a
temper that she has already pulled more than half of them out by the
roots. When the Wonderful Wizard reigned the Soldier with the Green
Whiskers was a very good Royal Army, for people feared the Wizard. But
no one is afraid of the Scarecrow, so his Royal Army don’t count for
much in time of war.”

After this conversation they proceeded some distance in silence, and
before long reached a large clearing in the forest where fully four
hundred young women were assembled. These were laughing and talking
together as gaily as if they had gathered for a picnic instead of a war
of conquest.

They were divided into four companies, and Tip noticed that all were
dressed in costumes similar to that worn by General Jinjur. The only
real difference was that while those girls from the Munchkin country
had the blue strip in front of their skirts, those from the country of
the Quadlings had the red strip in front; and those from the country of
the Winkies had the yellow strip in front, and the Gillikin girls wore
the purple strip in front. All had green waists, representing the
Emerald City they intended to conquer, and the top button on each waist
indicated by its color which country the wearer came from. The uniforms
were Jaunty and becoming, and quite effective when massed together.

Tip thought this strange Army bore no weapons whatever; but in this he
was wrong. For each girl had stuck through the knot of her back hair
two long, glittering knitting-needles.

General Jinjur immediately mounted the stump of a tree and addressed
her army.

“Friends, fellow-citizens, and girls!” she said; “we are about to begin
our great Revolt against the men of Oz! We march to conquer the Emerald
City—to dethrone the Scarecrow King—to acquire thousands of gorgeous
gems—to rifle the royal treasury—and to obtain power over our former
oppressors!”

[Illustration: image105]

[Illustration: image106]

“Hurrah!” said those who had listened; but Tip thought most of the Army
was too much engaged in chattering to pay attention to the words of the
General.

The command to march was now given, and the girls formed themselves
into four bands, or companies, and set off with eager strides toward
the Emerald City.

[Illustration: image107]

The boy followed after them, carrying several baskets and wraps and
packages which various members of the Army of Revolt had placed in his
care. It was not long before they came to the green granite walls of
the City and halted before the gateway.

The Guardian of the Gate at once came out and looked at them curiously,
as if a circus had come to town. He carried a bunch of keys swung round
his neck by a golden chain; his hands were thrust carelessly into his
pockets, and he seemed to have no idea at all that the City was
threatened by rebels. Speaking pleasantly to the girls, he said:

“Good morning, my dears! What can I do for you?”

“Surrender instantly!” answered General Jinjur, standing before him and
frowning as terribly as her pretty face would allow her to.

“Surrender!” echoed the man, astounded. “Why, it’s impossible. It’s
against the law! I never heard of such a thing in my life.”

“Still, you must surrender!” exclaimed the General, fiercely. “We are
revolting!”

“You don’t look it,” said the Guardian, gazing from one to another,
admiringly.

“But we are!” cried Jinjur, stamping her foot, impatiently; “and we
mean to conquer the Emerald City!”

“Good gracious!” returned the surprised Guardian of the Gates; “what a
nonsensical idea! Go home to your mothers, my good girls, and milk the
cows and bake the bread. Don’t you know it’s a dangerous thing to
conquer a city?”

[Illustration: image109]

“We are not afraid!” responded the General; and she looked so
determined that it made the Guardian uneasy.

So he rang the bell for the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, and the
next minute was sorry he had done so. For immediately he was surrounded
by a crowd of girls who drew the knitting-needles from their hair and
began Jabbing them at the Guardian with the sharp points dangerously
near his fat cheeks and blinking eyes.

The poor man howled loudly for mercy and made no resistance when Jinjur
drew the bunch of keys from around his neck.

Followed by her Army the General now rushed to the gateway, where she
was confronted by the Royal Army of Oz—which was the other name for the
Soldier with the Green Whiskers.

“Halt!” he cried, and pointed his long gun full in the face of the
leader.

Some of the girls screamed and ran back, but General Jinjur bravely
stood her ground and said, reproachfully:

“Why, how now? Would you shoot a poor, defenceless girl?”

“No,” replied the soldier. “for my gun isn’t loaded.”

“Not loaded?”

“No; for fear of accidents. And I’ve forgotten where I hid the powder
and shot to load it with. But if you’ll wait a short time I’ll try to
hunt them up.”

“Don’t trouble yourself,” said Jinjur, cheerfully. Then she turned to
her Army and cried:

“Girls, the gun isn’t loaded!”

“Hooray,” shrieked the rebels, delighted at this good news, and they
proceeded to rush upon the Soldier with the Green Whiskers in such a
crowd that it was a wonder they didn’t stick the knitting-needles into
one another.

But the Royal Army of Oz was too much afraid of women to meet the
onslaught. He simply turned about and ran with all his might through
the gate and toward the royal palace, while General Jinjur and her mob
flocked into the unprotected City.

In this way was the Emerald City captured without a drop of blood being
spilled. The Army of Revolt had become an Army of Conquerors!

[Illustration: image111]

[Illustration: image112]

[Illustration: image113]




The Scarecrow Plans an escape


Tip slipped away from the girls and followed swiftly after the Soldier
with the Green Whiskers. The invading army entered the City more
slowly, for they stopped to dig emeralds out of the walls and
paving-stones with the points of their knitting-needles. So the Soldier
and the boy reached the palace before the news had spread that the City
was conquered.

The Scarecrow and Jack Pumpkinhead were still playing at quoits in the
courtyard when the game was interrupted by the abrupt entrance of the
Royal Army of Oz, who came flying in without his hat or gun, his
clothes in sad disarray and his long beard floating a yard behind him
as he ran.

“Tally one for me,” said the Scarecrow, calmly “What’s wrong, my man?”
he added, addressing the Soldier.

“Oh! your Majesty—your Majesty! The City is conquered!” gasped the
Royal Army, who was all out of breath.

“This is quite sudden,” said the Scarecrow. “But please go and bar all
the doors and windows of the palace, while I show this Pumpkinhead how
to throw a quoit.”

The Soldier hastened to do this, while Tip, who had arrived at his
heels, remained in the courtyard to look at the Scarecrow with
wondering eyes.

His Majesty continued to throw the quoits as coolly as if no danger
threatened his throne, but the Pumpkinhead, having caught sight of Tip,
ambled toward the boy as fast as his wooden legs would go.

“Good afternoon, noble parent!” he cried, delightedly. “I’m glad to see
you are here. That terrible Saw-Horse ran away with me.”

“I suspected it,” said Tip. “Did you get hurt? Are you cracked at all?”

“No, I arrived safely,” answered Jack, “and his Majesty has been very
kind indeed to me.”

At this moment the Soldier with the Green Whiskers returned, and the
Scarecrow asked:

“By the way, who has conquered me?”

“A regiment of girls, gathered from the four corners of the Land of
Oz,” replied the Soldier, still pale with fear.

“But where was my Standing Army at the time?” inquired his Majesty,
looking at the Soldier, gravely.

“Your Standing Army was running,” answered the fellow, honestly; “for
no man could face the terrible weapons of the invaders.”

“Well,” said the Scarecrow, after a moment’s thought, “I don’t mind
much the loss of my throne, for it’s a tiresome job to rule over the
Emerald City. And this crown is so heavy that it makes my head ache.
But I hope the Conquerors have no intention of injuring me, just
because I happen to be the King.”

“I heard them, say” remarked Tip, with some hesitation, “that they
intend to make a rag carpet of your outside and stuff their
sofa-cushions with your inside.”

“Then I am really in danger,” declared his Majesty, positively, “and it
will be wise for me to consider a means to escape.”

[Illustration: image116]

“Where can you go?” asked Jack Pumpkinhead.

“Why, to my friend the Tin Woodman, who rules over the Winkies, and
calls himself their Emperor,” was the answer. “I am sure he will
protect me.”

Tip was looking out the window.

“The palace is surrounded by the enemy,” said he. “It is too late to
escape. They would soon tear you to pieces.”

The Scarecrow sighed.

“In an emergency,” he announced, “it is always a good thing to pause
and reflect. Please excuse me while I pause and reflect.”

“But we also are in danger,” said the Pumpkinhead, anxiously. “If any
of these girls understand cooking, my end is not far off!”

“Nonsense!” exclaimed the Scarecrow. “they’re too busy to cook, even if
they know how!”

“But should I remain here a prisoner for any length of time,” protested
Jack, “I’m liable to spoil.”

“Ah! then you would not be fit to associate with,” returned the
Scarecrow. “The matter is more serious than I suspected.”

“You,” said the Pumpkinhead, gloomily, “are liable to live for many
years. My life is necessarily short. So I must take advantage of the
few days that remain to me.”

“There, there! Don’t worry,” answered the Scarecrow soothingly; “if
you’ll keep quiet long enough for me to think, I’ll try to find some
way for us all to escape.”

So the others waited in patient silence while the Scarecrow walked to a
corner and stood with his face to the wall for a good five minutes. At
the end of that time he faced them with a more cheerful expression upon
his painted face.

“Where is the Saw-Horse you rode here?” he asked the Pumpkinhead.

“Why, I said he was a jewel, and so your man locked him up in the royal
treasury,” said Jack.

“It was the only place I could think of your Majesty,” added the
Soldier, fearing he had made a blunder.

“It pleases me very much,” said the Scarecrow. “Has the animal been
fed?”

“Oh, yes; I gave him a heaping peck of sawdust.”

“Excellent!” cried the Scarecrow. “Bring the horse here at once.”

The Soldier hastened away, and presently they heard the clattering of
the horse’s wooden legs upon the pavement as he was led into the
courtyard.

His Majesty regarded the steed critically. “He doesn’t seem especially
graceful!” he remarked, musingly. “but I suppose he can run?”

“He can, indeed,” said Tip, gazing upon the Saw-Horse admiringly.

“Then, bearing us upon his back, he must make a dash through the ranks
of the rebels and carry us to my friend the Tin Woodman,” announced the
Scarecrow.

“He can’t carry four!” objected Tip.

“No, but he may be induced to carry three,” said his Majesty. “I shall
therefore leave my Royal Army Behind. For, from the ease with which he
was conquered, I have little confidence in his powers.”

“Still, he can run,” declared Tip, laughing.

“I expected this blow” said the Soldier, sulkily; “but I can bear it. I
shall disguise myself by cutting off my lovely green whiskers. And,
after all, it is no more dangerous to face those reckless girls than to
ride this fiery, untamed wooden horse!”

“Perhaps you are right,” observed his Majesty. “But, for my part, not
being a soldier, I am fond of danger. Now, my boy, you must mount
first. And please sit as close to the horse’s neck as possible.”

Tip climbed quickly to his place, and the Soldier and the Scarecrow
managed to hoist the Pumpkinhead to a seat just behind him. There
remained so little space for the King that he was liable to fall off as
soon as the horse started.

“Fetch a clothesline,” said the King to his Army, “and tie us all
together. Then if one falls off we will all fall off.”

And while the Soldier was gone for the clothesline his Majesty
continued, “it is well for me to be careful, for my very existence is
in danger.”

“I have to be as careful as you do,” said Jack.

“Not exactly,” replied the Scarecrow. “for if anything happened to me,
that would be the end of me. But if anything happened to you, they
could use you for seed.”

The Soldier now returned with a long line and tied all three firmly
together, also lashing them to the body of the Saw-Horse; so there
seemed little danger of their tumbling off.

“Now throw open the gates,” commanded the Scarecrow, “and we will make
a dash to liberty or to death.”

[Illustration: image121]

The courtyard in which they were standing was located in the center of
the great palace, which surrounded it on all sides. But in one place a
passage led to an outer gateway, which the Soldier had barred by order
of his sovereign. It was through this gateway his Majesty proposed to
escape, and the Royal Army now led the Saw-Horse along the passage and
unbarred the gate, which swung backward with a loud crash.

“Now,” said Tip to the horse, “you must save us all. Run as fast as you
can for the gate of the City, and don’t let anything stop you.”

“All right!” answered the Saw-Horse, gruffly, and dashed away so
suddenly that Tip had to gasp for breath and hold firmly to the post he
had driven into the creature’s neck.

Several of the girls, who stood outside guarding the palace, were
knocked over by the Saw-Horse’s mad rush. Others ran screaming out of
the way, and only one or two jabbed their knitting-needles frantically
at the escaping prisoners. Tip got one small prick in his left arm,
which smarted for an hour afterward; but the needles had no effect upon
the Scarecrow or Jack Pumpkinhead, who never even suspected they were
being prodded.

As for the Saw-Horse, he made a wonderful record upsetting a fruit
cart, overturning several meek looking men, and finally bowling over
the new Guardian of the Gate—a fussy little fat woman appointed by
General Jinjur.

Nor did the impetuous charger stop then. Once outside the walls of the
Emerald City he dashed along the road to the West with fast and violent
leaps that shook the breath out of the boy and filled the Scarecrow
with wonder.

Jack had ridden at this mad rate once before, so he devoted every
effort to holding, with both hands, his pumpkin head upon its stick,
enduring meantime the dreadful jolting with the courage of a
philosopher.

“Slow him up! Slow him up!” shouted the Scarecrow. “My straw is all
shaking down into my legs.”

But Tip had no breath to speak, so the Saw-Horse continued his wild
career unchecked and with unabated speed.

Presently they came to the banks of a wide river, and without a pause
the wooden steed gave one final leap and launched them all in mid-air.

A second later they were rolling, splashing and bobbing about in the
water, the horse struggling frantically to find a rest for its feet and
its riders being first plunged beneath the rapid current and then
floating upon the surface like corks.

[Illustration: image123]

[Illustration: image124]

[Illustration: image125]




The Journey to the Tin Woodman


Tip was well soaked and dripping water from every angle of his body.
But he managed to lean forward and shout in the ear of the Saw-Horse:

“Keep still, you fool! Keep still!”

The horse at once ceased struggling and floated calmly upon the
surface, its wooden body being as buoyant as a raft.

“What does that word ‘fool’ mean?” enquired the horse.

“It is a term of reproach,” answered Tip, somewhat ashamed of the
expression. “I only use it when I am angry.”

“Then it pleases me to be able to call you a fool, in return,” said the
horse. “For I did not make the river, nor put it in our way; so only a
term of, reproach is fit for one who becomes angry with me for falling
into the water.”

“That is quite evident,” replied Tip; “so I will acknowledge myself in
the wrong.” Then he called out to the Pumpkinhead: “are you all right,
Jack?”

There was no reply. So the boy called to the King “are you all right,
your majesty?”

The Scarecrow groaned.

“I’m all wrong, somehow,” he said, in a weak voice. “How very wet this
water is!”

Tip was bound so tightly by the cord that he could not turn his head to
look at his companions; so he said to the Saw-Horse:

“Paddle with your legs toward the shore.”

The horse obeyed, and although their progress was slow they finally
reached the opposite river bank at a place where it was low enough to
enable the creature to scramble upon dry land.

With some difficulty the boy managed to get his knife out of his pocket
and cut the cords that bound the riders to one another and to the
wooden horse. He heard the Scarecrow fall to the ground with a mushy
sound, and then he himself quickly dismounted and looked at his friend
Jack.

The wooden body, with its gorgeous clothing, still sat upright upon the
horse’s back; but the pumpkin head was gone, and only the sharpened
stick that served for a neck was visible. As for the Scarecrow, the
straw in his body had shaken down with the jolting and packed itself
into his legs and the lower part of his body—which appeared very plump
and round while his upper half seemed like an empty sack. Upon his head
the Scarecrow still wore the heavy crown, which had been sewed on to
prevent his losing it; but the head was now so damp and limp that the
weight of the gold and jewels sagged forward and crushed the painted
face into a mass of wrinkles that made him look exactly like a Japanese
pug dog.

Tip would have laughed—had he not been so anxious about his man Jack.
But the Scarecrow, however damaged, was all there, while the pumpkin
head that was so necessary to Jack’s existence was missing; so the boy
seized a long pole that fortunately lay near at hand and anxiously
turned again toward the river.

[Illustration: image128]

Far out upon the waters he sighted the golden hue of the pumpkin, which
gently bobbed up and down with the motion of the waves. At that moment
it was quite out of Tip’s reach, but after a time it floated nearer and
still nearer until the boy was able to reach it with his pole and draw
it to the shore. Then he brought it to the top of the bank, carefully
wiped the water from its pumpkin face with his handkerchief, and ran
with it to Jack and replaced the head upon the man’s neck.

“Dear me!” were Jack’s first words. “What a dreadful experience! I
wonder if water is liable to spoil pumpkins?”

Tip did not think a reply was necessary, for he knew that the Scarecrow
also stood in need of his help. So he carefully removed the straw from
the King’s body and legs, and spread it out in the sun to dry. The wet
clothing he hung over the body of the Saw-Horse.

“If water spoils pumpkins,” observed Jack, with a deep sigh, “then my
days are numbered.”

“I’ve never noticed that water spoils pumpkins,” returned Tip; “unless
the water happens to be boiling. If your head isn’t cracked, my friend,
you must be in fairly good condition.”

“Oh, my head isn’t cracked in the least,” declared Jack, more
cheerfully.

“Then don’t worry,” retorted the boy. “Care once killed a cat.”

“Then,” said Jack, seriously, “I am very glad indeed that I am not a
cat.”

The sun was fast drying their clothing, and Tip stirred up his
Majesty’s straw so that the warm rays might absorb the moisture and
make it as crisp and dry as ever. When this had been accomplished he
stuffed the Scarecrow into symmetrical shape and smoothed out his face
so that he wore his usual gay and charming expression.

“Thank you very much,” said the monarch, brightly, as he walked about
and found himself to be well balanced. “There are several distinct
advantages in being a Scarecrow. For if one has friends near at hand to
repair damages, nothing very serious can happen to you.”

“I wonder if hot sunshine is liable to crack pumpkins,” said Jack, with
an anxious ring in his voice.

“Not at all—not at all!” replied the Scarecrow, gaily. “All you need
fear, my boy, is old age. When your golden youth has decayed we shall
quickly part company—but you needn’t look forward to it; we’ll discover
the fact ourselves, and notify you. But come! Let us resume our
journey. I am anxious to greet my friend the Tin Woodman.”

So they remounted the Saw-Horse, Tip holding to the post, the
Pumpkinhead clinging to Tip, and the Scarecrow with both arms around
the wooden form of Jack.

[Illustration: image131]

“Go slowly, for now there is no danger of pursuit,” said Tip to his
steed.

“All right!” responded the creature, in a voice rather gruff.

“Aren’t you a little hoarse?” asked the Pumpkinhead politely.

The Saw-Horse gave an angry prance and rolled one knotty eye backward
toward Tip.

“See here,” he growled, “can’t you protect me from insult?”

“To be sure!” answered Tip, soothingly. “I am sure Jack meant no harm.
And it will not do for us to quarrel, you know; we must all remain good
friends.”

“I’ll have nothing more to do with that Pumpkinhead,” declared the
Saw-Horse, viciously. “he loses his head too easily to suit me.”

There seemed no fitting reply to this speech, so for a time they rode
along in silence.

After a while the Scarecrow remarked:

“This reminds me of old times. It was upon this grassy knoll that I
once saved Dorothy from the Stinging Bees of the Wicked Witch of the
West.”

“Do Stinging Bees injure pumpkins?” asked Jack, glancing around
fearfully.

“They are all dead, so it doesn’t matter,” replied the Scarecrow. “And
here is where Nick Chopper destroyed the Wicked Witch’s Grey Wolves.”

“Who was Nick Chopper?” asked Tip.

“That is the name of my friend the Tin Woodman, answered his Majesty.
And here is where the Winged Monkeys captured and bound us, and flew
away with little Dorothy,” he continued, after they had traveled a
little way farther.

“Do Winged Monkeys ever eat pumpkins?” asked Jack, with a shiver of
fear.

“I do not know; but you have little cause to, worry, for the Winged
Monkeys are now the slaves of Glinda the Good, who owns the Golden Cap
that commands their services,” said the Scarecrow, reflectively.

Then the stuffed monarch became lost in thought recalling the days of
past adventures. And the Saw-Horse rocked and rolled over the
flower-strewn fields and carried its riders swiftly upon their way.

Twilight fell, bye and bye, and then the dark shadows of night. So Tip
stopped the horse and they all proceeded to dismount.

“I’m tired out,” said the boy, yawning wearily; “and the grass is soft
and cool. Let us lie down here and sleep until morning.”

“I can’t sleep,” said Jack.

“I never do,” said the Scarecrow.

“I do not even know what sleep is,” said the Saw-Horse.

“Still, we must have consideration for this poor boy, who is made of
flesh and blood and bone, and gets tired,” suggested the Scarecrow, in
his usual thoughtful manner. “I remember it was the same way with
little Dorothy. We always had to sit through the night while she
slept.”

“I’m sorry,” said Tip, meekly, “but I can’t help it. And I’m dreadfully
hungry, too!”

“Here is a new danger!” remarked Jack, gloomily. “I hope you are not
fond of eating pumpkins.”

“Not unless they’re stewed and made into pies,” answered the boy,
laughing. “So have no fears of me, friend Jack.”

“What a coward that Pumpkinhead is!” said the Saw-Horse, scornfully.

“You might be a coward yourself, if you knew you were liable to spoil!”
retorted Jack, angrily.

“There!—there!” interrupted the Scarecrow; “don’t let us quarrel. We
all have our weaknesses, dear friends; so we must strive to be
considerate of one another. And since this poor boy is hungry and has
nothing whatever to eat, let us all remain quiet and allow him to
sleep; for it is said that in sleep a mortal may forget even hunger.”

“Thank you!” exclaimed Tip, gratefully. “Your Majesty is fully as good
as you are wise—and that is saying a good deal!”

He then stretched himself upon the grass and, using the stuffed form of
the Scarecrow for a pillow, was presently fast asleep.

[Illustration: image135]

[Illustration: image136]

[Illustration: image137]




A Nickel-Plated Emperor


Tip awoke soon after dawn, but the Scarecrow had already risen and
plucked, with his clumsy fingers, a double-handful of ripe berries from
some bushes near by. These the boy ate greedily, finding them an ample
breakfast, and afterward the little party resumed its Journey.

After an hour’s ride they reached the summit of a hill from whence they
espied the City of the Winkies and noted the tall domes of the
Emperor’s palace rising from the clusters of more modest dwellings.

The Scarecrow became greatly animated at this sight, and exclaimed:

“How delighted I shall be to see my old friend the Tin Woodman again! I
hope that he rules his people more successfully than I have ruled
mine!”

“Is the Tin Woodman the Emperor of the Winkies?” asked the horse.

“Yes, indeed. They invited him to rule over them soon after the Wicked
Witch was destroyed; and as Nick Chopper has the best heart in all the
world I am sure he has proved an excellent and able emperor.”

“I thought that ‘Emperor’ was the title of a person who rules an
empire,” said Tip, “and the Country of the Winkies is only a Kingdom.”

“Don’t mention that to the Tin Woodman!” exclaimed the Scarecrow,
earnestly. “You would hurt his feelings terribly. He is a proud man, as
he has every reason to be, and it pleases him to be termed Emperor
rather than King.”

“I’m sure it makes no difference to me,” replied the boy.

The Saw-Horse now ambled forward at a pace so fast that its riders had
hard work to stick upon its back; so there was little further
conversation until they drew up beside the palace steps.

An aged Winkie, dressed in a uniform of silver cloth, came forward to
assist them to alight. Said the Scarecrow to his personage:

“Show us at once to your master, the Emperor.”

The man looked from one to another of the party in an embarrassed way,
and finally answered:

“I fear I must ask you to wait for a time. The Emperor is not receiving
this morning.”

“How is that?” enquired the Scarecrow, anxiously. “I hope nothing has
happened to him.”

“Oh, no; nothing serious,” returned the man. “But this is his Majesty’s
day for being polished; and just now his august presence is thickly
smeared with putz-pomade.”

“Oh, I see!” cried the Scarecrow, greatly reassured. “My friend was
ever inclined to be a dandy, and I suppose he is now more proud than
ever of his personal appearance.”

“He is, indeed,” said the man, with a polite bow. “Our mighty Emperor
has lately caused himself to be nickel-plated.”

“Good Gracious!” the Scarecrow exclaimed at hearing this. “If his wit
bears the same polish, how sparkling it must be! But show us in—I’m
sure the Emperor will receive us, even in his present state”

“The Emperor’s state is always magnificent,” said the man. “But I will
venture to tell him of your arrival, and will receive his commands
concerning you.”

So the party followed the servant into a splendid ante-room, and the
Saw-Horse ambled awkwardly after them, having no knowledge that a horse
might be expected to remain outside.

The travelers were at first somewhat awed by their surroundings, and
even the Scarecrow seemed impressed as he examined the rich hangings of
silver cloth caught up into knots and fastened with tiny silver axes.
Upon a handsome center-table stood a large silver oil-can, richly
engraved with scenes from the past adventures of the Tin Woodman,
Dorothy, the Cowardly Lion and the Scarecrow: the lines of the
engraving being traced upon the silver in yellow gold. On the walls
hung several portraits, that of the Scarecrow seeming to be the most
prominent and carefully executed, while a the large painting of the
famous Wizard of Oz, in act of presenting the Tin Woodman with a heart,
covered almost one entire end of the room.

While the visitors gazed at these things in silent admiration they
suddenly heard a loud voice in the next room exclaim:

“Well! well! well! What a great surprise!”

And then the door burst open and Nick Chopper rushed into their midst
and caught the Scarecrow in a close and loving embrace that creased him
into many folds and wrinkles.

[Illustration: image141]

“My dear old friend! My noble comrade!” cried the Tin Woodman,
joyfully. “how delighted! I am to meet you once again.”

And then he released the Scarecrow and held him at arms’ length while
he surveyed the beloved, painted features.

But, alas! the face of the Scarecrow and many portions of his body bore
great blotches of putz-pomade; for the Tin Woodman, in his eagerness to
welcome his friend, had quite forgotten the condition of his toilet and
had rubbed the thick coating of paste from his own body to that of his
comrade.

“Dear me!” said the Scarecrow dolefully. “What a mess I’m in!”

“Never mind, my friend,” returned the Tin Woodman, “I’ll send you to my
Imperial Laundry, and you’ll come out as good as new.”

“Won’t I be mangled?” asked the Scarecrow.

“No, indeed!” was the reply. “But tell me, how came your Majesty here?
and who are your companions?”

The Scarecrow, with great politeness, introduced Tip and Jack
Pumpkinhead, and the latter personage seemed to interest the Tin
Woodman greatly.

“You are not very substantial, I must admit,” said the Emperor. “but
you are certainly unusual, and therefore worthy to become a member of
our select society.”

[Illustration: image143]

“I thank your Majesty,” said Jack, humbly.

“I hope you are enjoying good health?” continued the Woodman.

“At present, yes;” replied the Pumpkinhead, with a sigh; “but I am in
constant terror of the day when I shall spoil.”

“Nonsense!” said the Emperor—but in a kindly, sympathetic tone. “Do
not, I beg of you, dampen today’s sun with the showers of tomorrow. For
before your head has time to spoil you can have it canned, and in that
way it may be preserved indefinitely.”

Tip, during this conversation, was looking at the Woodman with
undisguised amazement, and noticed that the celebrated Emperor of the
Winkies was composed entirely of pieces of tin, neatly soldered and
riveted together into the form of a man. He rattled and clanked a
little, as he moved, but in the main he seemed to be most cleverly
constructed, and his appearance was only marred by the thick coating of
polishing-paste that covered him from head to foot.

The boy’s intent gaze caused the Tin Woodman to remember that he was
not in the most presentable condition, so he begged his friends to
excuse him while he retired to his private apartment and allowed his
servants to polish him. This was accomplished in a short time, and when
the emperor returned his nickel-plated body shone so magnificently that
the Scarecrow heartily congratulated him on his improved appearance.

“That nickel-plate was, I confess, a happy thought,” said Nick; “and it
was the more necessary because I had become somewhat scratched during
my adventurous experiences. You will observe this engraved star upon my
left breast. It not only indicates where my excellent heart lies, but
covers very neatly the patch made by the Wonderful Wizard when he
placed that valued organ in my breast with his own skillful hands.”

“Is your heart, then, a hand-organ?” asked the Pumpkinhead, curiously.

“By no means,” responded the emperor, with dignity. “It is, I am
convinced, a strictly orthodox heart, although somewhat larger and
warmer than most people possess.”

Then he turned to the Scarecrow and asked:

“Are your subjects happy and contented, my dear friend?”

“I cannot, say” was the reply. “for the girls of Oz have risen in
revolt and driven me out of the emerald City.”

“Great Goodness!” cried the Tin Woodman, “What a calamity! They surely
do not complain of your wise and gracious rule?”

“No; but they say it is a poor rule that don’t work both ways,”
answered the Scarecrow; “and these females are also of the opinion that
men have ruled the land long enough. So they have captured my city,
robbed the treasury of all its jewels, and are running things to suit
themselves.”

“Dear me! What an extraordinary idea!” cried the Emperor, who was both
shocked and surprised.

“And I heard some of them say,” said Tip, “that they intend to march
here and capture the castle and city of the Tin Woodman.”

“Ah! we must not give them time to do that,” said the Emperor, quickly;
“we will go at once and recapture the Emerald City and place the
Scarecrow again upon his throne.”

“I was sure you would help me,” remarked the Scarecrow in a pleased
voice. “How large an army can you assemble?”

“We do not need an army,” replied the Woodman. “We four, with the aid
of my gleaming axe, are enough to strike terror into the hearts of the
rebels.”

“We five,” corrected the Pumpkinhead.

“Five?” repeated the Tin Woodman.

“Yes; the Saw-Horse is brave and fearless,” answered Jack, forgetting
his recent quarrel with the quadruped.

The Tin Woodman looked around him in a puzzled way, for the Saw-Horse
had until now remained quietly standing in a corner, where the Emperor
had not noticed him. Tip immediately called the odd-looking creature to
them, and it approached so awkwardly that it nearly upset the beautiful
center-table and the engraved oil-can.

“I begin to think,” remarked the Tin Woodman as he looked earnestly at
the Saw-Horse, “that wonders will never cease! How came this creature
alive?”

“I did it with a magic powder,” modestly asserted the boy. “and the
Saw-Horse has been very useful to us.”

“He enabled us to escape the rebels,” added the Scarecrow.

“Then we must surely accept him as a comrade,” declared the emperor. “A
live Saw-Horse is a distinct novelty, and should prove an interesting
study. Does he know anything?”

“Well, I cannot claim any great experience in life,” the Saw-Horse
answered for himself. “but I seem to learn very quickly, and often it
occurs to me that I know more than any of those around me.”

“Perhaps you do,” said the emperor; “for experience does not always
mean wisdom. But time is precious just now, so let us quickly make
preparations to start upon our Journey.”

[Illustration: image146]

The emperor called his Lord High Chancellor and instructed him how to
run the kingdom during his absence. Meanwhile the Scarecrow was taken
apart and the painted sack that served him for a head was carefully
laundered and restuffed with the brains originally given him by the
great Wizard. His clothes were also cleaned and pressed by the Imperial
tailors, and his crown polished and again sewed upon his head, for the
Tin Woodman insisted he should not renounce this badge of royalty. The
Scarecrow now presented a very respectable appearance, and although in
no way addicted to vanity he was quite pleased with himself and
strutted a trifle as he walked. While this was being done Tip mended
the wooden limbs of Jack Pumpkinhead and made them stronger than
before, and the Saw-Horse was also inspected to see if he was in good
working order.

Then bright and early the next morning they set out upon the return
Journey to the emerald City, the Tin Woodman bearing upon his shoulder
a gleaming axe and leading the way, while the Pumpkinhead rode upon the
Saw-Horse and Tip and the Scarecrow walked upon either side to make
sure that he didn’t fall off or become damaged.

[Illustration: image149]

[Illustration: image150]

[Illustration: image152]




Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E.


Now, General Jinjur—who, you will remember, commanded the Army of
Revolt—was rendered very uneasy by the escape of the Scarecrow from the
Emerald City. She feared, and with good reason, that if his Majesty and
the Tin Woodman Joined forces, it would mean danger to her and her
entire army; for the people of Oz had not yet forgotten the deeds of
these famous heroes, who had passed successfully through so many
startling adventures.

So Jinjur sent post-haste for old Mombi, the witch, and promised her
large rewards if she would come to the assistance of the rebel army.

Mombi was furious at the trick Tip had played upon her as well as at
his escape and the theft of the precious Powder of Life; so she needed
no urging to induce her to travel to the Emerald City to assist Jinjur
in defeating the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, who had made Tip one of
their friends.

Mombi had no sooner arrived at the royal palace than she discovered, by
means of her secret magic, that the adventurers were starting upon
their Journey to the Emerald City; so she retired to a small room high
up in a tower and locked herself in while she practised such arts as
she could command to prevent the return of the Scarecrow and his
companions.

That was why the Tin Woodman presently stopped and said:

“Something very curious has happened. I ought to know by heart and
every step of this Journey, yet I fear we have already lost our way.”

“That is quite impossible!” protested the Scarecrow. “Why do you think,
my dear friend, that we have gone astray?”

“Why, here before us is a great field of sunflowers—and I never saw
this field before in all my life.”

At these words they all looked around, only to find that they were
indeed surrounded by a field of tall stalks, every stalk bearing at its
top a gigantic sunflower. And not only were these flowers almost
blinding in their vivid hues of red and gold, but each one whirled
around upon its stalk like a miniature wind-mill, completely dazzling
the vision of the beholders and so mystifying them that they knew not
which way to turn.

“It’s witchcraft!” exclaimed Tip.

While they paused, hesitating and wondering, the Tin Woodman uttered a
cry of impatience and advanced with swinging axe to cut down the stalks
before him. But now the sunflowers suddenly stopped their rapid
whirling, and the travelers plainly saw a girl’s face appear in the
center of each flower. These lovely faces looked upon the astonished
band with mocking smiles, and then burst into a chorus of merry
laughter at the dismay their appearance caused.

“Stop! stop!” cried Tip, seizing the Woodman’s arm; “they’re alive!
they’re girls!”

At that moment the flowers began whirling again, and the faces faded
away and were lost in the rapid revolutions.

The Tin Woodman dropped his axe and sat down upon the ground.

“It would be heartless to chop down those pretty creatures,” said he,
despondently. “and yet I do not know how else we can proceed upon our
way”

“They looked to me strangely like the faces of the Army of Revolt,”
mused the Scarecrow. “But I cannot conceive how the girls could have
followed us here so quickly.”

“I believe it’s magic,” said Tip, positively, “and that someone is
playing a trick upon us. I’ve known old Mombi do things like that
before. Probably it’s nothing more than an illusion, and there are no
sunflowers here at all.”

“Then let us shut our eyes and walk forward,” suggested the Woodman.

“Excuse me,” replied the Scarecrow. “My eyes are not painted to shut.
Because you happen to have tin eyelids, you must not imagine we are all
built in the same way.”

“And the eyes of the Saw-Horse are knot eyes,” said Jack, leaning
forward to examine them.

“Nevertheless, you must ride quickly forward,” commanded Tip, “and we
will follow after you and so try to escape. My eyes are already so
dazzled that I can scarcely see.”

So the Pumpkinhead rode boldly forward, and Tip grasped the stub tail
of the Saw-Horse and followed with closed eyes. The Scarecrow and the
Tin Woodman brought up the rear, and before they had gone many yards a
Joyful shout from Jack announced that the way was clear before them.

Then all paused to look backward, but not a trace of the field of
sunflowers remained.

More cheerfully, now they proceeded upon their Journey; but old Mombi
had so changed the appearance of the landscape that they would surely
have been lost had not the Scarecrow wisely concluded to take their
direction from the sun. For no witch-craft could change the course of
the sun, and it was therefore a safe guide.

However, other difficulties lay before them. The Saw-Horse stepped into
a rabbit hole and fell to the ground. The Pumpkinhead was pitched high
into the air, and his history would probably have ended at that exact
moment had not the Tin Woodman skillfully caught the pumpkin as it
descended and saved it from injury.

[Illustration: image156]

Tip soon had it fitted to the neck again and replaced Jack upon his
feet. But the Saw-Horse did not escape so easily. For when his leg was
pulled from the rabbit hole it was found to be broken short off, and
must be replaced or repaired before he could go a step farther.

“This is quite serious,” said the Tin Woodman. “If there were trees
near by I might soon manufacture another leg for this animal; but I
cannot see even a shrub for miles around.”

“And there are neither fences nor houses in this part of the land of
Oz,” added the Scarecrow, disconsolately.

“Then what shall we do?” enquired the boy.

“I suppose I must start my brains working,” replied his Majesty the
Scarecrow; “for experience has, taught me that I can do anything if I
but take time to think it out.”

“Let us all think,” said Tip; “and perhaps we shall find a way to
repair the Saw-Horse.”

[Illustration: image158]

So they sat in a row upon the grass and began to think, while the
Saw-Horse occupied itself by gazing curiously upon its broken limb.

“Does it hurt?” asked the Tin Woodman, in a soft, sympathetic voice.

“Not in the least,” returned the Saw-Horse; “but my pride is injured to
find that my anatomy is so brittle.”

For a time the little group remained in silent thought. Presently the
Tin Woodman raised his head and looked over the fields.

“What sort of creature is that which approaches us?” he asked,
wonderingly.

The others followed his gaze, and discovered coming toward them the
most extraordinary object they had ever beheld. It advanced quickly and
noiselessly over the soft grass and in a few minutes stood before the
adventurers and regarded them with an astonishment equal to their own.

[Illustration: image159]

The Scarecrow was calm under all circumstances.

“Good morning!” he said, politely.

The stranger removed his hat with a flourish, bowed very low, and then
responded:

“Good morning, one and all. I hope you are, as an aggregation, enjoying
excellent health. Permit me to present my card.”

With this courteous speech it extended a card toward the Scarecrow, who
accepted it, turned it over and over, and handed it with a shake of his
head to Tip.

The boy read aloud:

“MR. H. M. WOGGLE-BUG, T. E.”

“Dear me!” ejaculated the Pumpkinhead, staring somewhat intently.

“How very peculiar!” said the Tin Woodman.

Tip’s eyes were round and wondering, and the Saw-Horse uttered a sigh
and turned away its head.

“Are you really a Woggle-Bug?” enquired the Scarecrow.

“Most certainly, my dear sir!” answered the stranger, briskly. “Is not
my name upon the card?”

“It is,” said the Scarecrow. “But may I ask what ‘H. M.’ stands for?”

“‘H. M.’ means Highly Magnified,” returned the Woggle-Bug, proudly.

“Oh, I see.” The Scarecrow viewed the stranger critically. “And are
you, in truth, highly magnified?”

“Sir,” said the Woggle-Bug, “I take you for a gentleman of judgment and
discernment. Does it not occur to you that I am several thousand times
greater than any Woggle-Bug you ever saw before? Therefore it is
plainly evident that I am Highly Magnified, and there is no good reason
why you should doubt the fact.”

“Pardon me,” returned the Scarecrow. “My brains are slightly mixed
since I was last laundered. Would it be improper for me to ask, also,
what the ‘T.E.’ at the end of your name stands for?”

“Those letters express my degree,” answered the Woggle-Bug, with a
condescending smile. “To be more explicit, the initials mean that I am
Thoroughly Educated.”

“Oh!” said the Scarecrow, much relieved.

Tip had not yet taken his eyes off this wonderful personage. What he
saw was a great, round, buglike body supported upon two slender legs
which ended in delicate feet—the toes curling upward. The body of the
Woggle-Bug was rather flat, and judging from what could be seen of it
was of a glistening dark brown color upon the back, while the front was
striped with alternate bands of light brown and white, blending
together at the edges. Its arms were fully as slender as its legs, and
upon a rather long neck was perched its head—not unlike the head of a
man, except that its nose ended in a curling antenna, or “feeler,” and
its ears from the upper points bore antennae that decorated the sides
of its head like two miniature, curling pig tails. It must be admitted
that the round, black eyes were rather bulging in appearance; but the
expression upon the Woggle-Bug’s face was by no means unpleasant.

For dress the insect wore a dark-blue swallowtail coat with a yellow
silk lining and a flower in the button-hole; a vest of white duck that
stretched tightly across the wide body; knickerbockers of fawn-colored
plush, fastened at the knees with gilt buckles; and, perched upon its
small head, was jauntily set a tall silk hat.

Standing upright before our amazed friends the Woggle-Bug appeared to
be fully as tall as the Tin Woodman; and surely no bug in all the Land
of Oz had ever before attained so enormous a size.

“I confess,” said the Scarecrow, “that your abrupt appearance has
caused me surprise, and no doubt has startled my companions. I hope,
however, that this circumstance will not distress you. We shall
probably get used to you in time.”

“Do not apologize, I beg of you!” returned the Woggle-Bug, earnestly.
“It affords me great pleasure to surprise people; for surely I cannot
be classed with ordinary insects and am entitled to both curiosity and
admiration from those I meet.”

“You are, indeed,” agreed his Majesty.

“If you will permit me to seat myself in your august company,”
continued the stranger, “I will gladly relate my history, so that you
will be better able to comprehend my unusual—may I say
remarkable?—appearance.”

“You may say what you please,” answered the Tin Woodman, briefly.

So the Woggle-Bug sat down upon the grass, facing the little group of
wanderers, and told them the following story:

[Illustration: image164]

[Illustration: image165]




A Highly Magnified History


“It is but honest that I should acknowledge at the beginning of my
recital that I was born an ordinary Woggle-Bug,” began the creature, in
a frank and friendly tone. “Knowing no better, I used my arms as well
as my legs for walking, and crawled under the edges of stones or hid
among the roots of grasses with no thought beyond finding a few insects
smaller than myself to feed upon.

“The chill nights rendered me stiff and motionless, for I wore no
clothing, but each morning the warm rays of the sun gave me new life
and restored me to activity. A horrible existence is this, but you must
remember it is the regular ordained existence of Woggle-Bugs, as well
as of many other tiny creatures that inhabit the earth.

“But Destiny had singled me out, humble though I was, for a grander
fate! One day I crawled near to a country school house, and my
curiosity being excited by the monotonous hum of the students within, I
made bold to enter and creep along a crack between two boards until I
reached the far end, where, in front of a hearth of glowing embers, sat
the master at his desk.

“No one noticed so small a creature as a Woggle-Bug, and when I found
that the hearth was even warmer and more comfortable than the sunshine,
I resolved to establish my future home beside it. So I found a charming
nest between two bricks and hid myself therein for many, many months.

“Professor Nowitall is, doubtless, the most famous scholar in the land
of Oz, and after a few days I began to listen to the lectures and
discourses he gave his pupils. Not one of them was more attentive than
the humble, unnoticed Woggle-Bug, and I acquired in this way a fund of
knowledge that I will myself confess is simply marvelous. That is why I
place ‘T.E.’ Thoroughly Educated upon my cards; for my greatest pride
lies in the fact that the world cannot produce another Woggle-Bug with
a tenth part of my own culture and erudition.”

“I do not blame you,” said the Scarecrow. “Education is a thing to be
proud of. I’m educated myself. The mess of brains given me by the Great
Wizard is considered by my friends to be unexcelled.”

“Nevertheless,” interrupted the Tin Woodman, “a good heart is, I
believe, much more desirable than education or brains.”

“To me,” said the Saw-Horse, “a good leg is more desirable than
either.”

“Could seeds be considered in the light of brains?” enquired the
Pumpkinhead, abruptly.

“Keep quiet!” commanded Tip, sternly.

“Very well, dear father,” answered the obedient Jack.

The Woggle-Bug listened patiently—even respectfully—to these remarks,
and then resumed his story.

“I must have lived fully three years in that secluded school-house
hearth,” said he, “drinking thirstily of the ever-flowing fount of
limpid knowledge before me.”

“Quite poetical,” commented the Scarecrow, nodding his head
approvingly.

“But one, day” continued the Bug, “a marvelous circumstance occurred
that altered my very existence and brought me to my present pinnacle of
greatness. The Professor discovered me in the act of crawling across
the hearth, and before I could escape he had caught me between his
thumb and forefinger.

[Illustration: image167]

“‘My dear children,’ said he, ‘I have captured a Woggle-Bug—a very rare
and interesting specimen. Do any of you know what a Woggle-Bug is?’

“‘No!’ yelled the scholars, in chorus.

“‘Then,’ said the Professor, ‘I will get out my famous magnifying-glass
and throw the insect upon a screen in a highly-magnified condition,
that you may all study carefully its peculiar construction and become
acquainted with its habits and manner of life.’

“He then brought from a cupboard a most curious instrument, and before
I could realize what had happened I found myself thrown upon a screen
in a highly-magnified state—even as you now behold me.

[Illustration: image169]

“The students stood up on their stools and craned their heads forward
to get a better view of me, and two little girls jumped upon the sill
of an open window where they could see more plainly.

“‘Behold!’ cried the Professor, in a loud voice, ‘this highly-magnified
Woggle-Bug; one of the most curious insects in existence!’

“Being Thoroughly Educated, and knowing what is required of a cultured
gentleman, at this juncture I stood upright and, placing my hand upon
my bosom, made a very polite bow. My action, being unexpected, must
have startled them, for one of the little girls perched upon the
window-sill gave a scream and fell backward out the window, drawing her
companion with her as she disappeared.

“The Professor uttered a cry of horror and rushed away through the door
to see if the poor children were injured by the fall. The scholars
followed after him in a wild mob, and I was left alone in the
school-room, still in a Highly-Magnified state and free to do as I
pleased.

“It immediately occurred to me that this was a good opportunity to
escape. I was proud of my great size, and realized that now I could
safely travel anywhere in the world, while my superior culture would
make me a fit associate for the most learned person I might chance to
meet.

“So, while the Professor picked the little girls—who were more
frightened than hurt—off the ground, and the pupils clustered around
him closely grouped, I calmly walked out of the school-house, turned a
corner, and escaped unnoticed to a grove of trees that stood near”

“Wonderful!” exclaimed the Pumpkinhead, admiringly.

“It was, indeed,” agreed the Woggle-Bug. “I have never ceased to
congratulate myself for escaping while I was Highly Magnified; for even
my excessive knowledge would have proved of little use to me had I
remained a tiny, insignificant insect.”

[Illustration: image171]

“I didn’t know before,” said Tip, looking at the Woggle-Bug with a
puzzled expression, “that insects wore clothes.”

“Nor do they, in their natural state,” returned the stranger. “But in
the course of my wanderings I had the good fortune to save the ninth
life of a tailor—tailors having, like cats, nine lives, as you probably
know. The fellow was exceedingly grateful, for had he lost that ninth
life it would have been the end of him; so he begged permission to
furnish me with the stylish costume I now wear. It fits very nicely,
does it not?” and the Woggle-Bug stood up and turned himself around
slowly, that all might examine his person.

“He must have been a good tailor,” said the Scarecrow, somewhat
enviously.

“He was a good-hearted tailor, at any rate,” observed Nick Chopper.

“But where were you going, when you met us?” Tip asked the Woggle-Bug.

“Nowhere in particular,” was the reply, “although it is my intention
soon to visit the Emerald City and arrange to give a course of lectures
to select audiences on the ‘Advantages of Magnification.’”

“We are bound for the Emerald City now,” said the Tin Woodman; “so, if
it pleases you to do so, you are welcome to travel in our company.”

The Woggle-Bug bowed with profound grace.

“It will give me great pleasure,” said he “to accept your kind
invitation; for nowhere in the Land of Oz could I hope to meet with so
congenial a company.”

“That is true,” acknowledged the Pumpkinhead. “We are quite as
congenial as flies and honey.”

“But—pardon me if I seem inquisitive—are you not all rather—ahem!
rather unusual?” asked the Woggle-Bug, looking from one to another with
unconcealed interest.

“Not more so than yourself,” answered the Scarecrow. “Everything in
life is unusual until you get accustomed to it.”

“What rare philosophy!” exclaimed the Woggle-Bug, admiringly.

“Yes; my brains are working well today,” admitted the Scarecrow, an
accent of pride in his voice.

“Then, if you are sufficiently rested and refreshed, let us bend our
steps toward the Emerald City,” suggested the magnified one.

“We can’t,” said Tip. “The Saw-Horse has broken a leg, so he can’t bend
his steps. And there is no wood around to make him a new limb from. And
we can’t leave the horse behind because the Pumpkinhead is so stiff in
his Joints that he has to ride.”

“How very unfortunate!” cried the Woggle-Bug. Then he looked the party
over carefully and said:

“If the Pumpkinhead is to ride, why not use one of his legs to make a
leg for the horse that carries him? I judge that both are made of
wood.”

“Now, that is what I call real cleverness,” said the Scarecrow,
approvingly. “I wonder my brains did not think of that long ago! Get to
work, my dear Nick, and fit the Pumpkinhead’s leg to the Saw-Horse.”

Jack was not especially pleased with this idea; but he submitted to
having his left leg amputated by the Tin Woodman and whittled down to
fit the left leg of the Saw-Horse. Nor was the Saw-Horse especially
pleased with the operation, either; for he growled a good deal about
being “butchered,” as he called it, and afterward declared that the new
leg was a disgrace to a respectable Saw-Horse.

“I beg you to be more careful in your speech,” said the Pumpkinhead,
sharply. “Remember, if you please, that it is my leg you are abusing.”

“I cannot forget it,” retorted the Saw-Horse, “for it is quite as
flimsy as the rest of your person.”

“Flimsy! me flimsy!” cried Jack, in a rage. “How dare you call me
flimsy?”

“Because you are built as absurdly as a jumping-jack,” sneered the
horse, rolling his knotty eyes in a vicious manner. “Even your head
won’t stay straight, and you never can tell whether you are looking
backwards or forwards!”

“Friends, I entreat you not to quarrel!” pleaded the Tin Woodman,
anxiously. “As a matter of fact, we are none of us above criticism; so
let us bear with each others’ faults.”

“An excellent suggestion,” said the Woggle-Bug, approvingly. “You must
have an excellent heart, my metallic friend.”

“I have,” returned Nick, well pleased. “My heart is quite the best part
of me. But now let us start upon our Journey.

They perched the one-legged Pumpkinhead upon the Saw-Horse, and tied
him to his seat with cords, so that he could not possibly fall off.

And then, following the lead of the Scarecrow, they all advanced in the
direction of the Emerald City.

[Illustration: image175]

[Illustration: image176]

[Illustration: image177]




Old Mombi indulges in Witchcraft


They soon discovered that the Saw-Horse limped, for his new leg was a
trifle too long. So they were obliged to halt while the Tin Woodman
chopped it down with his axe, after which the wooden steed paced along
more comfortably. But the Saw-Horse was not entirely satisfied, even
yet.

“It was a shame that I broke my other leg!” it growled.

“On the contrary,” airily remarked the Woggle-Bug, who was walking
alongside, “you should consider the accident most fortunate. For a
horse is never of much use until he has been broken.”

“I beg your pardon,” said Tip, rather provoked, for he felt a warm
interest in both the Saw-Horse and his man Jack; “but permit me to say
that your joke is a poor one, and as old as it is poor.”

“Still, it is a Joke,” declared the Woggle-Bug; firmly, “and a Joke
derived from a play upon words is considered among educated people to
be eminently proper.”

“What does that mean?” enquired the Pumpkinhead, stupidly.

“It means, my dear friend,” explained the Woggle-Bug, “that our
language contains many words having a double meaning; and that to
pronounce a joke that allows both meanings of a certain word, proves
the joker a person of culture and refinement, who has, moreover, a
thorough command of the language.”

“I don’t believe that,” said Tip, plainly; “anybody can make a pun.”

“Not so,” rejoined the Woggle-Bug, stiffly. “It requires education of a
high order. Are you educated, young sir?”

“Not especially,” admitted Tip.

“Then you cannot judge the matter. I myself am Thoroughly Educated, and
I say that puns display genius. For instance, were I to ride upon this
Saw-Horse, he would not only be an animal he would become an equipage.
For he would then be a horse-and-buggy.”

At this the Scarecrow gave a gasp and the Tin Woodman stopped short and
looked reproachfully at the Woggle-Bug. At the same time the Saw-Horse
loudly snorted his derision; and even the Pumpkinhead put up his hand
to hide the smile which, because it was carved upon his face, he could
not change to a frown.

But the Woggle-Bug strutted along as if he had made some brilliant
remark, and the Scarecrow was obliged to say:

“I have heard, my dear friend, that a person can become over-educated;
and although I have a high respect for brains, no matter how they may
be arranged or classified, I begin to suspect that yours are slightly
tangled. In any event, I must beg you to restrain your superior
education while in our society.”

“We are not very particular,” added the Tin Woodman; “and we are
exceedingly kind hearted. But if your superior culture gets leaky
again—” He did not complete the sentence, but he twirled his gleaming
axe so carelessly that the Woggle-Bug looked frightened, and shrank
away to a safe distance.

The others marched on in silence, and the Highly Magnified one, after a
period of deep thought, said in an humble voice:

“I will endeavor to restrain myself.”

“That is all we can expect,” returned the Scarecrow pleasantly; and
good nature being thus happily restored to the party, they proceeded
upon their way.

When they again stopped to allow Tip to rest—the boy being the only one
that seemed to tire—the Tin Woodman noticed many small, round holes in
the grassy meadow.

“This must be a village of the Field Mice,” he said to the Scarecrow.
“I wonder if my old friend, the Queen of the Mice, is in this
neighborhood.”

“If she is, she may be of great service to us,” answered the Scarecrow,
who was impressed by a sudden thought. “See if you can call her, my
dear Nick.”

So the Tin Woodman blew a shrill note upon a silver whistle that hung
around his neck, and presently a tiny grey mouse popped from a near-by
hole and advanced fearlessly toward them. For the Tin Woodman had once
saved her life, and the Queen of the Field Mice knew he was to be
trusted.

“Good day, your Majesty,” said Nick, politely addressing the mouse; “I
trust you are enjoying good health?”

“Thank you, I am quite well,” answered the Queen, demurely, as she sat
up and displayed the tiny golden crown upon her head. “Can I do
anything to assist my old friends?”

“You can, indeed,” replied the Scarecrow, eagerly. “Let me, I intreat
you, take a dozen of your subjects with me to the Emerald City.”

“Will they be injured in any way?” asked the Queen, doubtfully.

“I think not,” replied the Scarecrow. “I will carry them hidden in the
straw which stuffs my body, and when I give them the signal by
unbuttoning my jacket, they have only to rush out and scamper home
again as fast as they can. By doing this they will assist me to regain
my throne, which the Army of Revolt has taken from me.”

“In that case,” said the Queen, “I will not refuse your request.
Whenever you are ready, I will call twelve of my most intelligent
subjects.”

“I am ready now” returned the Scarecrow. Then he lay flat upon the
ground and unbuttoned his jacket, displaying the mass of straw with
which he was stuffed.

The Queen uttered a little piping call, and in an instant a dozen
pretty field mice had emerged from their holes and stood before their
ruler, awaiting her orders.

[Illustration: image181]

What the Queen said to them none of our travelers could understand, for
it was in the mouse language; but the field mice obeyed without
hesitation, running one after the other to the Scarecrow and hiding
themselves in the straw of his breast.

When all of the twelve mice had thus concealed themselves, the
Scarecrow buttoned his Jacket securely and then arose and thanked the
Queen for her kindness.

“One thing more you might do to serve us,” suggested the Tin Woodman;
“and that is to run ahead and show us the way to the Emerald City. For
some enemy is evidently trying to prevent us from reaching it.”

“I will do that gladly,” returned the Queen. “Are you ready?”

The Tin Woodman looked at Tip.

“I’m rested,” said the boy. “Let us start.”

Then they resumed their journey, the little grey Queen of the Field
Mice running swiftly ahead and then pausing until the travelers drew
near, when away she would dart again.

Without this unerring guide the Scarecrow and his comrades might never
have gained the Emerald City; for many were the obstacles thrown in
their way by the arts of old Mombi. Yet not one of the obstacles really
existed—all were cleverly contrived deceptions. For when they came to
the banks of a rushing river that threatened to bar their way the
little Queen kept steadily on, passing through the seeming flood in
safety; and our travelers followed her without encountering a single
drop of water.

Again, a high wall of granite towered high above their heads and
opposed their advance. But the grey Field Mouse walked straight through
it, and the others did the same, the wall melting into mist as they
passed it.

Afterward, when they had stopped for a moment to allow Tip to rest,
they saw forty roads branching off from their feet in forty different
directions; and soon these forty roads began whirling around like a
mighty wheel, first in one direction and then in the other, completely
bewildering their vision.

But the Queen called for them to follow her and darted off in a
straight line; and when they had gone a few paces the whirling pathways
vanished and were seen no more.

Mombi’s last trick was the most fearful of all. She sent a sheet of
crackling flame rushing over the meadow to consume them; and for the
first time the Scarecrow became afraid and turned to fly.

“If that fire reaches me I will be gone in no time!” said he, trembling
until his straw rattled. “It’s the most dangerous thing I ever
encountered.”

“I’m off, too!” cried the Saw-Horse, turning and prancing with
agitation; “for my wood is so dry it would burn like kindlings.”

“Is fire dangerous to pumpkins?” asked Jack, fearfully.

“You’ll be baked like a tart—and so will I!” answered the Woggle-Bug,
getting down on all fours so he could run the faster.

But the Tin Woodman, having no fear of fire, averted the stampede by a
few sensible words.

“Look at the Field Mouse!” he shouted. “The fire does not burn her in
the least. In fact, it is no fire at all, but only a deception.”

Indeed, to watch the little Queen march calmly through the advancing
flames restored courage to every member of the party, and they followed
her without being even scorched.

“This is surely a most extraordinary adventure,” said the Woggle-Bug,
who was greatly amazed; “for it upsets all the Natural Laws that I
heard Professor Nowitall teach in the school-house.”

“Of course it does,” said the Scarecrow, wisely. “All magic is
unnatural, and for that reason is to be feared and avoided. But I see
before us the gates of the Emerald City, so I imagine we have now
overcome all the magical obstacles that seemed to oppose us.”

Indeed, the walls of the City were plainly visible, and the Queen of
the Field Mice, who had guided them so faithfully, came near to bid
them good-bye.

“We are very grateful to your Majesty for your kind assistance,” said
the Tin Woodman, bowing before the pretty creature.

“I am always pleased to be of service to my friends,” answered the
Queen, and in a flash she had darted away upon her journey home.

[Illustration: image188]

[Illustration: image189]




The Prisoners of the Queen


Approaching the gateway of the Emerald City the travelers found it
guarded by two girls of the Army of Revolt, who opposed their entrance
by drawing the knitting-needles from their hair and threatening to prod
the first that came near.

But the Tin Woodman was not afraid.

“At the worst they can but scratch my beautiful nickel-plate,” he said.
“But there will be no ‘worst,’ for I think I can manage to frighten
these absurd soldiers very easily. Follow me closely, all of you!”

Then, swinging his axe in a great circle to right and left before him,
he advanced upon the gate, and the others followed him without
hesitation.

The girls, who had expected no resistance whatever, were terrified by
the sweep of the glittering axe and fled screaming into the city; so
that our travelers passed the gates in safety and marched down the
green marble pavement of the wide street toward the royal palace.

“At this rate we will soon have your Majesty upon the throne again,”
said the Tin Woodman, laughing at his easy conquest of the guards.

“Thank you, friend Nick,” returned the Scarecrow, gratefully. “Nothing
can resist your kind heart and your sharp axe.”

As they passed the rows of houses they saw through the open doors that
men were sweeping and dusting and washing dishes, while the women sat
around in groups, gossiping and laughing.

“What has happened?” the Scarecrow asked a sad-looking man with a bushy
beard, who wore an apron and was wheeling a baby-carriage along the
sidewalk.

“Why, we’ve had a revolution, your Majesty as you ought to know very
well,” replied the man; “and since you went away the women have been
running things to suit themselves. I’m glad you have decided to come
back and restore order, for doing housework and minding the children is
wearing out the strength of every man in the Emerald City.”

“Hm!” said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully. “If it is such hard work as you
say, how did the women manage it so easily?”

“I really do not know” replied the man, with a deep sigh. “Perhaps the
women are made of castiron.”

No movement was made, as they passed along the street, to oppose their
progress. Several of the women stopped their gossip long enough to cast
curious looks upon our friends, but immediately they would turn away
with a laugh or a sneer and resume their chatter. And when they met
with several girls belonging to the Army of Revolt, those soldiers,
instead of being alarmed or appearing surprised, merely stepped out of
the way and allowed them to advance without protest.

This action rendered the Scarecrow uneasy.

“I’m afraid we are walking into a trap,” said he.

“Nonsense!” returned Nick Chopper, confidently; “the silly creatures
are conquered already!”

But the Scarecrow shook his head in a way that expressed doubt, and Tip
said:

[Illustration: image192]

“It’s too easy, altogether. Look out for trouble ahead.”

“I will,” returned his Majesty. Unopposed they reached the royal palace
and marched up the marble steps, which had once been thickly crusted
with emeralds but were now filled with tiny holes where the jewels had
been ruthlessly torn from their settings by the Army of Revolt. And so
far not a rebel barred their way.

Through the arched hallways and into the magnificent throne room
marched the Tin Woodman and his followers, and here, when the green
silken curtains fell behind them, they saw a curious sight.

Seated within the glittering throne was General Jinjur, with the
Scarecrow’s second-best crown upon her head, and the royal sceptre in
her right hand. A box of caramels, from which she was eating, rested in
her lap, and the girl seemed entirely at ease in her royal
surroundings.

The Scarecrow stepped forward and confronted her, while the Tin Woodman
leaned upon his axe and the others formed a half-circle back of his
Majesty’s person.

“How dare you sit in my throne?” demanded the Scarecrow, sternly eyeing
the intruder. “Don’t you know you are guilty of treason, and that there
is a law against treason?”

“The throne belongs to whoever is able to take it,” answered Jinjur, as
she slowly ate another caramel. “I have taken it, as you see; so just
now I am the Queen, and all who oppose me are guilty of treason, and
must be punished by the law you have just mentioned.”

This view of the case puzzled the Scarecrow.

“How is it, friend Nick?” he asked, turning to the Tin Woodman.

“Why, when it comes to Law, I have nothing to, say” answered that
personage. “for laws were never meant to be understood, and it is
foolish to make the attempt.”

“Then what shall we do?” asked the Scarecrow, in dismay.

“Why don’t you marry the Queen? And then you can both rule,” suggested
the Woggle-Bug.

Jinjur glared at the insect fiercely. “Why don’t you send her back to
her mother, where she belongs?” asked Jack Pumpkinhead.

Jinjur frowned.

“Why don’t you shut her up in a closet until she behaves herself, and
promises to be good?” enquired Tip. Jinjur’s lip curled scornfully.

“Or give her a good shaking!” added the Saw-Horse.

“No,” said the Tin Woodman, “we must treat the poor girl with
gentleness. Let us give her all the Jewels she can carry, and send her
away happy and contented.”

[Illustration: image195]

At this Queen Jinjur laughed aloud, and the next minute clapped her
pretty hands together thrice, as if for a signal.

“You are very absurd creatures,” said she; “but I am tired of your
nonsense and have no time to bother with you longer.”

While the monarch and his friends listened in amazement to this
impudent speech, a startling thing happened. The Tin Woodman’s axe was
snatched from his grasp by some person behind him, and he found himself
disarmed and helpless. At the same instant a shout of laughter rang in
the ears of the devoted band, and turning to see whence this came they
found themselves surrounded by the Army of Revolt, the girls bearing in
either hand their glistening knitting-needles. The entire throne room
seemed to be filled with the rebels, and the Scarecrow and his comrades
realized that they were prisoners.

“You see how foolish it is to oppose a woman’s wit,” said Jinjur,
gaily; “and this event only proves that I am more fit to rule the
Emerald City than a Scarecrow. I bear you no ill will, I assure you;
but lest you should prove troublesome to me in the future I shall order
you all to be destroyed. That is, all except the boy, who belongs to
old Mombi and must be restored to her keeping. The rest of you are not
human, and therefore it will not be wicked to demolish you. The
Saw-Horse and the Pumpkinhead’s body I will have chopped up for
kindling-wood; and the pumpkin shall be made into tarts. The Scarecrow
will do nicely to start a bonfire, and the tin man can be cut into
small pieces and fed to the goats. As for this immense Woggle-Bug—”

“Highly Magnified, if you please!” interrupted the insect.

“I think I will ask the cook to make green-turtle soup of you,”
continued the Queen, reflectively.

The Woggle-Bug shuddered.

“Or, if that won’t do, we might use you for a Hungarian goulash, stewed
and highly spiced,” she added, cruelly.

This programme of extermination was so terrible that the prisoners
looked upon one another in a panic of fear. The Scarecrow alone did not
give way to despair. He stood quietly before the Queen and his brow was
wrinkled in deep thought as he strove to find some means to escape.

While thus engaged he felt the straw within his breast move gently. At
once his expression changed from sadness to joy, and raising his hand
he quickly unbuttoned the front of his jacket.

This action did not pass unnoticed by the crowd of girls clustering
about him, but none of them suspected what he was doing until a tiny
grey mouse leaped from his bosom to the floor and scampered away
between the feet of the Army of Revolt. Another mouse quickly followed;
then another and another, in rapid succession. And suddenly such a
scream of terror went up from the Army that it might easily have filled
the stoutest heart with consternation. The flight that ensued turned to
a stampede, and the stampede to a panic.

For while the startled mice rushed wildly about the room the Scarecrow
had only time to note a whirl of skirts and a twinkling of feet as the
girls disappeared from the palace—pushing and crowding one another in
their mad efforts to escape.

The Queen, at the first alarm, stood up on the cushions of the throne
and began to dance frantically upon her tiptoes. Then a mouse ran up
the cushions, and with a terrified leap poor Jinjur shot clear over the
head of the Scarecrow and escaped through an archway—never pausing in
her wild career until she had reached the city gates.

So, in less time than I can explain, the throne room was deserted by
all save the Scarecrow and his friends, and the Woggle-Bug heaved a
deep sigh of relief as he exclaimed:

“Thank goodness, we are saved!”

“For a time, yes;” answered the Tin Woodman. “But the enemy will soon
return, I fear.”

“Let us bar all the entrances to the palace!” said the Scarecrow. “Then
we shall have time to think what is best to be done.”

So all except Jack Pumpkinhead, who was still tied fast to the
Saw-Horse, ran to the various entrances of the royal palace and closed
the heavy doors, bolting and locking them securely. Then, knowing that
the Army of Revolt could not batter down the barriers in several days,
the adventurers gathered once more in the throne room for a council of
war.

[Illustration: image201]

[Illustration: image202]

[Illustration: image203]




The Scarecrow Takes Time to Think


“It seems to me,” began the Scarecrow, when all were again assembled in
the throne room, “that the girl Jinjur is quite right in claiming to be
Queen. And if she is right, then I am wrong, and we have no business to
be occupying her palace.”

“But you were the King until she came,” said the Woggle-Bug, strutting
up and down with his hands in his pockets; “so it appears to me that
she is the interloper instead of you.”

“Especially as we have just conquered her and put her to flight,” added
the Pumpkinhead, as he raised his hands to turn his face toward the
Scarecrow.

“Have we really conquered her?” asked the Scarecrow, quietly. “Look out
of the window, and tell me what you see.”

Tip ran to the window and looked out.

“The palace is surrounded by a double row of girl soldiers,” he
announced.

“I thought so,” returned the Scarecrow. “We are as truly their
prisoners as we were before the mice frightened them from the palace.”

“My friend is right,” said Nick Chopper, who had been polishing his
breast with a bit of chamois-leather. “Jinjur is still the Queen, and
we are her prisoners.”

“But I hope she cannot get at us,” exclaimed the Pumpkinhead, with a
shiver of fear. “She threatened to make tarts of me, you know.”

“Don’t worry,” said the Tin Woodman. “It cannot matter greatly. If you
stay shut up here you will spoil in time, anyway. A good tart is far
more admirable than a decayed intellect.”

“Very true,” agreed the Scarecrow.

“Oh, dear!” moaned Jack; “what an unhappy lot is mine! Why, dear
father, did you not make me out of tin—or even out of straw—so that I
would keep indefinitely.”

“Shucks!” returned Tip, indignantly. “You ought to be glad that I made
you at all.” Then he added, reflectively, “everything has to come to an
end, some time.”

“But I beg to remind you,” broke in the Woggle-Bug, who had a
distressed look in his bulging, round eyes, “that this terrible Queen
Jinjur suggested making a goulash of me—Me! the only Highly Magnified
and Thoroughly Educated Woggle-Bug in the wide, wide world!”

“I think it was a brilliant idea,” remarked the Scarecrow, approvingly.

“Don’t you imagine he would make a better soup?” asked the Tin Woodman,
turning toward his friend.

“Well, perhaps,” acknowledged the Scarecrow.

The Woggle-Bug groaned.

“I can see, in my mind’s eye,” said he, mournfully, “the goats eating
small pieces of my dear comrade, the Tin Woodman, while my soup is
being cooked on a bonfire built of the Saw-Horse and Jack Pumpkinhead’s
body, and Queen Jinjur watches me boil while she feeds the flames with
my friend the Scarecrow!”

[Illustration: image205]

This morbid picture cast a gloom over the entire party, making them
restless and anxious.

“It can’t happen for some time,” said the Tin Woodman, trying to speak
cheerfully; “for we shall be able to keep Jinjur out of the palace
until she manages to break down the doors.”

“And in the meantime I am liable to starve to death, and so is the
Woggle-Bug,” announced Tip.

“As for me,” said the Woggle-Bug, “I think that I could live for some
time on Jack Pumpkinhead. Not that I prefer pumpkins for food; but I
believe they are somewhat nutritious, and Jack’s head is large and
plump.”

“How heartless!” exclaimed the Tin Woodman, greatly shocked. “Are we
cannibals, let me ask? Or are we faithful friends?”

“I see very clearly that we cannot stay shut up in this palace,” said
the Scarecrow, with decision. “So let us end this mournful talk and try
to discover a means to escape.”

At this suggestion they all gathered eagerly around the throne, wherein
was seated the Scarecrow, and as Tip sat down upon a stool there fell
from his pocket a pepper-box, which rolled upon the floor.

“What is this?” asked Nick Chopper, picking up the box.

“Be careful!” cried the boy. “That’s my Powder of Life. Don’t spill it,
for it is nearly gone.”

“And what is the Powder of Life?” enquired the Scarecrow, as Tip
replaced the box carefully in his pocket.

“It’s some magical stuff old Mombi got from a crooked sorcerer,”
explained the boy. “She brought Jack to life with it, and afterward I
used it to bring the Saw-Horse to life. I guess it will make anything
live that is sprinkled with it; but there’s only about one dose left.”

“Then it is very precious,” said the Tin Woodman.

“Indeed it is,” agreed the Scarecrow. “It may prove our best means of
escape from our difficulties. I believe I will think for a few minutes;
so I will thank you, friend Tip, to get out your knife and rip this
heavy crown from my forehead.”

Tip soon cut the stitches that had fastened the crown to the
Scarecrow’s head, and the former monarch of the Emerald City removed it
with a sigh of relief and hung it on a peg beside the throne.

[Illustration: image209]

“That is my last memento of royalty” said he; “and I’m glad to get rid
of it. The former King of this City, who was named Pastoria, lost the
crown to the Wonderful Wizard, who passed it on to me. Now the girl
Jinjur claims it, and I sincerely hope it will not give her a
headache.”

“A kindly thought, which I greatly admire,” said the Tin Woodman,
nodding approvingly.

“And now I will indulge in a quiet think,” continued the Scarecrow,
lying back in the throne.

The others remained as silent and still as possible, so as not to
disturb him; for all had great confidence in the extraordinary brains
of the Scarecrow.

And, after what seemed a very long time indeed to the anxious watchers,
the thinker sat up, looked upon his friends with his most whimsical
expression, and said:

“My brains work beautifully today. I’m quite proud of them. Now,
listen! If we attempt to escape through the doors of the palace we
shall surely be captured. And, as we can’t escape through the ground,
there is only one other thing to be done. We must escape through the
air!”

He paused to note the effect of these words; but all his hearers seemed
puzzled and unconvinced.

“The Wonderful Wizard escaped in a balloon,” he continued. “We don’t
know how to make a balloon, of course; but any sort of thing that can
fly through the air can carry us easily. So I suggest that my friend
the Tin Woodman, who is a skillful mechanic, shall build some sort of a
machine, with good strong wings, to carry us; and our friend Tip can
then bring the Thing to life with his magical powder.”

“Bravo!” cried Nick Chopper.

“What splendid brains!” murmured Jack.

“Really quite clever!” said the Educated Woggle-Bug.

“I believe it can be done,” declared Tip; “that is, if the Tin Woodman
is equal to making the Thing.”

“I’ll do my best,” said Nick, cheerily; “and, as a matter of fact, I do
not often fail in what I attempt. But the Thing will have to be built
on the roof of the palace, so it can rise comfortably into the air.”

[Illustration: image211]

“To be sure,” said the Scarecrow.

“Then let us search through the palace,” continued the Tin Woodman,
“and carry all the material we can find to the roof, where I will begin
my work.”

“First, however,” said the Pumpkinhead, “I beg you will release me from
this horse, and make me another leg to walk with. For in my present
condition I am of no use to myself or to anyone else.”

So the Tin Woodman knocked a mahogany center-table to pieces with his
axe and fitted one of the legs, which was beautifully carved, on to the
body of Jack Pumpkinhead, who was very proud of the acquisition.

“It seems strange,” said he, as he watched the Tin Woodman work, “that
my left leg should be the most elegant and substantial part of me.”

“That proves you are unusual,” returned the Scarecrow. “and I am
convinced that the only people worthy of consideration in this world
are the unusual ones. For the common folks are like the leaves of a
tree, and live and die unnoticed.”

“Spoken like a philosopher!” cried the Woggle-Bug, as he assisted the
Tin Woodman to set Jack upon his feet.

“How do you feel now?” asked Tip, watching the Pumpkinhead stump around
to try his new leg.

“As good as new” answered Jack, joyfully, “and quite ready to assist
you all to escape.”

“Then let us get to work,” said the Scarecrow, in a business-like tone.

So, glad to be doing anything that might lead to the end of their
captivity, the friends separated to wander over the palace in search of
fitting material to use in the construction of their aerial machine.

[Illustration: image213]

[Illustration: image214]

[Illustration: image215]




The Astonishing Flight of the Gump


When the adventurers reassembled upon the roof it was found that a
remarkably queer assortment of articles had been selected by the
various members of the party. No one seemed to have a very clear idea
of what was required, but all had brought something.

The Woggle-Bug had taken from its position over the mantle-piece in the
great hallway the head of a Gump, which was adorned with wide-spreading
antlers; and this, with great care and greater difficulty, the insect
had carried up the stairs to the roof. This Gump resembled an Elk’s
head, only the nose turned upward in a saucy manner and there were
whiskers upon its chin, like those of a billy-goat. Why the Woggle-Bug
selected this article he could not have explained, except that it had
aroused his curiosity.

Tip, with the aid of the Saw-Horse, had brought a large, upholstered
sofa to the roof. It was an oldfashioned piece of furniture, with high
back and ends, and it was so heavy that even by resting the greatest
weight upon the back of the Saw-Horse, the boy found himself out of
breath when at last the clumsy sofa was dumped upon the roof.

[Illustration: image217]

The Pumpkinhead had brought a broom, which was the first thing he saw.
The Scarecrow arrived with a coil of clothes-lines and ropes which he
had taken from the courtyard, and in his trip up the stairs he had
become so entangled in the loose ends of the ropes that both he and his
burden tumbled in a heap upon the roof and might have rolled off if Tip
had not rescued him.

The Tin Woodman appeared last. He also had been to the courtyard, where
he had cut four great, spreading leaves from a huge palm-tree that was
the pride of all the inhabitants of the Emerald City.

“My dear Nick!” exclaimed the Scarecrow, seeing what his friend had
done; “you have been guilty of the greatest crime any person can commit
in the Emerald City. If I remember rightly, the penalty for chopping
leaves from the royal palm-tree is to be killed seven times and
afterward imprisoned for life.”

“It cannot be helped now” answered the Tin Woodman, throwing down the
big leaves upon the roof. “But it may be one more reason why it is
necessary for us to escape. And now let us see what you have found for
me to work with.”

Many were the doubtful looks cast upon the heap of miscellaneous
material that now cluttered the roof, and finally the Scarecrow shook
his head and remarked:

“Well, if friend Nick can manufacture, from this mess of rubbish, a
Thing that will fly through the air and carry us to safety, then I will
acknowledge him to be a better mechanic than I suspected.”

But the Tin Woodman seemed at first by no means sure of his powers, and
only after polishing his forehead vigorously with the chamois-leather
did he resolve to undertake the task.

“The first thing required for the machine,” said he, “is a body big
enough to carry the entire party. This sofa is the biggest thing we
have, and might be used for a body. But, should the machine ever tip
sideways, we would all slide off and fall to the ground.”

“Why not use two sofas?” asked Tip. “There’s another one just like this
down stairs.”

“That is a very sensible suggestion,” exclaimed the Tin Woodman. “You
must fetch the other sofa at once.”

So Tip and the Saw-Horse managed, with much labor, to get the second
sofa to the roof; and when the two were placed together, edge to edge,
the backs and ends formed a protecting rampart all around the seats.

“Excellent!” cried the Scarecrow. “We can ride within this snug nest
quite at our ease.”

The two sofas were now bound firmly together with ropes and
clothes-lines, and then Nick Chopper fastened the Gump’s head to one
end.

“That will show which is the front end of the Thing,” said he, greatly
pleased with the idea. “And, really, if you examine it critically, the
Gump looks very well as a figure-head. These great palm-leaves, for
which I have endangered my life seven times, must serve us as wings.”

“Are they strong enough?” asked the boy.

“They are as strong as anything we can get,” answered the Woodman; “and
although they are not in proportion to the Thing’s body, we are not in
a position to be very particular.”

So he fastened the palm-leaves to the sofas, two on each side.

Said the Woggle-Bug, with considerable admiration:

“The Thing is now complete, and only needs to be brought to life.”

“Stop a moment!” exclaimed Jack. “Are you not going to use my broom?”

“What for?” asked the Scarecrow.

“Why, it can be fastened to the back end for a tail,” answered the
Pumpkinhead. “Surely you would not call the Thing complete without a
tail.”

“Hm!” said the Tin Woodman, “I do not see the use of a tail. We are not
trying to copy a beast, or a fish, or a bird. All we ask of the Thing
is to carry us through the air.”

“Perhaps, after the Thing is brought to life, it can use a tail to
steer with,” suggested the Scarecrow. “For if it flies through the air
it will not be unlike a bird, and I’ve noticed that all birds have
tails, which they use for a rudder while flying.”

“Very well,” answered Nick, “the broom shall be used for a tail,” and
he fastened it firmly to the back end of the sofa body.

Tip took the pepper-box from his pocket.

“The Thing looks very big,” said he, anxiously; “and I am not sure
there is enough powder left to bring all of it to life. But I’ll make
it go as far as possible.”

“Put most on the wings,” said Nick Chopper; “for they must be made as
strong as possible.”

“And don’t forget the head!” exclaimed the Woggle-Bug.

“Or the tail!” added Jack Pumpkinhead.

“Do be quiet,” said Tip, nervously; “you must give me a chance to work
the magic charm in the proper manner.”

Very carefully he began sprinkling the Thing with the precious powder.
Each of the four wings was first lightly covered with a layer, then the
sofas were sprinkled, and the broom given a slight coating.

“The head! The head! Don’t, I beg of you, forget the head!” cried the
Woggle-Bug, excitedly.

“There’s only a little of the powder left,” announced Tip, looking
within the box. “And it seems to me it is more important to bring the
legs of the sofas to life than the head.”

“Not so,” decided the Scarecrow. “Every thing must have a head to
direct it; and since this creature is to fly, and not walk, it is
really unimportant whether its legs are alive or not.”

So Tip abided by this decision and sprinkled the Gump’s head with the
remainder of the powder.

“Now” said he, “keep silence while I work the, charm!”

Having heard old Mombi pronounce the magic words, and having also
succeeded in bringing the Saw-Horse to life, Tip did not hesitate an
instant in speaking the three cabalistic words, each accompanied by the
peculiar gesture of the hands.

It was a grave and impressive ceremony.

As he finished the incantation the Thing shuddered throughout its huge
bulk, the Gump gave the screeching cry that is familiar to those
animals, and then the four wings began flopping furiously.

[Illustration: image222]

Tip managed to grasp a chimney, else he would have been blown off the
roof by the terrible breeze raised by the wings. The Scarecrow, being
light in weight, was caught up bodily and borne through the air until
Tip luckily seized him by one leg and held him fast. The Woggle-Bug lay
flat upon the roof and so escaped harm, and the Tin Woodman, whose
weight of tin anchored him firmly, threw both arms around Jack
Pumpkinhead and managed to save him. The Saw-Horse toppled over upon
his back and lay with his legs waving helplessly above him.

And now, while all were struggling to recover themselves, the Thing
rose slowly from the roof and mounted into the air.

“Here! Come back!” cried Tip, in a frightened voice, as he clung to the
chimney with one hand and the Scarecrow with the other. “Come back at
once, I command you!”

It was now that the wisdom of the Scarecrow, in bringing the head of
the Thing to life instead of the legs, was proved beyond a doubt. For
the Gump, already high in the air, turned its head at Tip’s command and
gradually circled around until it could view the roof of the palace.

“Come back!” shouted the boy, again.

And the Gump obeyed, slowly and gracefully waving its four wings in the
air until the Thing had settled once more upon the roof and become
still.

[Illustration: image224]

[Illustration: image225]




In the Jackdaw’s Nest


“This,” said the Gump, in a squeaky voice not at all proportioned to
the size of its great body, “is the most novel experience I ever heard
of. The last thing I remember distinctly is walking through the forest
and hearing a loud noise. Something probably killed me then, and it
certainly ought to have been the end of me. Yet here I am, alive again,
with four monstrous wings and a body which I venture to say would make
any respectable animal or fowl weep with shame to own. What does it all
mean? Am I a Gump, or am I a juggernaut?” The creature, as it spoke,
wiggled its chin whiskers in a very comical manner.

“You’re just a Thing,” answered Tip, “with a Gump’s head on it. And we
have made you and brought you to life so that you may carry us through
the air wherever we wish to go.”

“Very good!” said the Thing. “As I am not a Gump, I cannot have a
Gump’s pride or independent spirit. So I may as well become your
servant as anything else. My only satisfaction is that I do not seem to
have a very strong constitution, and am not likely to live long in a
state of slavery.”

“Don’t say that, I beg of you!” cried the Tin Woodman, whose excellent
heart was strongly affected by this sad speech. “Are you not feeling
well today?”

“Oh, as for that,” returned the Gump, “it is my first day of existence;
so I cannot Judge whether I am feeling well or ill.” And it waved its
broom tail to and fro in a pensive manner.

“Come, come!” said the Scarecrow, kindly. “do try, to be more cheerful
and take life as you find it. We shall be kind masters, and will strive
to render your existence as pleasant as possible. Are you willing to
carry us through the air wherever we wish to go?”

“Certainly,” answered the Gump. “I greatly prefer to navigate the air.
For should I travel on the earth and meet with one of my own species,
my embarrassment would be something awful!”

“I can appreciate that,” said the Tin Woodman, sympathetically.

“And yet,” continued the Thing, “when I carefully look you over, my
masters, none of you seems to be constructed much more artistically
than I am.”

“Appearances are deceitful,” said the Woggle-Bug, earnestly. “I am both
Highly Magnified and Thoroughly Educated.”

“Indeed!” murmured the Gump, indifferently.

“And my brains are considered remarkably rare specimens,” added the
Scarecrow, proudly.

“How strange!” remarked the Gump.

“Although I am of tin,” said the Woodman, “I own a heart altogether the
warmest and most admirable in the whole world.”

“I’m delighted to hear it,” replied the Gump, with a slight cough.

“My smile,” said Jack Pumpkinhead, “is worthy your best attention. It
is always the same.”

“_Semper idem_,” explained the Woggle-Bug, pompously; and the Gump
turned to stare at him.

“And I,” declared the Saw-Horse, filling in an awkward pause, “am only
remarkable because I can’t help it.”

“I am proud, indeed, to meet with such exceptional masters,” said the
Gump, in a careless tone. “If I could but secure so complete an
introduction to myself, I would be more than satisfied.”

“That will come in time,” remarked the Scarecrow. “To ‘Know Thyself’ is
considered quite an accomplishment, which it has taken us, who are your
elders, months to perfect. But now,” he added, turning to the others,
“let us get aboard and start upon our journey.”

“Where shall we go?” asked Tip, as he clambered to a seat on the sofas
and assisted the Pumpkinhead to follow him.

“In the South Country rules a very delightful Queen called Glinda the
Good, who I am sure will gladly receive us,” said the Scarecrow,
getting into the Thing clumsily. “Let us go to her and ask her advice.”

“That is cleverly thought of,” declared Nick Chopper, giving the
Woggle-Bug a boost and then toppling the Saw-Horse into the rear end of
the cushioned seats. “I know Glinda the Good, and believe she will
prove a friend indeed.”

“Are we all ready?” asked the boy.

“Yes,” announced the Tin Woodman, seating himself beside the Scarecrow.

“Then,” said Tip, addressing the Gump, “be kind enough to fly with us
to the Southward; and do not go higher than to escape the houses and
trees, for it makes me dizzy to be up so far.”

“All right,” answered the Gump, briefly.

It flopped its four huge wings and rose slowly into the air; and then,
while our little band of adventurers clung to the backs and sides of
the sofas for support, the Gump turned toward the South and soared
swiftly and majestically away.

[Illustration: image229]

“The scenic effect, from this altitude, is marvelous,” commented the
educated Woggle-Bug, as they rode along.

“Never mind the scenery,” said the Scarecrow. “Hold on tight, or you
may get a tumble. The Thing seems to rock badly.”

“It will be dark soon,” said Tip, observing that the sun was low on the
horizon. “Perhaps we should have waited until morning. I wonder if the
Gump can fly in the night.”

“I’ve been wondering that myself,” returned the Gump quietly. “You see,
this is a new experience to me. I used to have legs that carried me
swiftly over the ground. But now my legs feel as if they were asleep.”

“They are,” said Tip. “We didn’t bring ’em to life.”

“You’re expected to fly,” explained the Scarecrow. “not to walk.”

“We can walk ourselves,” said the Woggle-Bug.

“I begin to understand what is required of me,” remarked the Gump; “so
I will do my best to please you,” and he flew on for a time in silence.

Presently Jack Pumpkinhead became uneasy.

“I wonder if riding through the air is liable to spoil pumpkins,” he
said.

“Not unless you carelessly drop your head over the side,” answered the
Woggle-Bug. “In that event your head would no longer be a pumpkin, for
it would become a squash.”

“Have I not asked you to restrain these unfeeling jokes?” demanded Tip,
looking at the Woggle-Bug with a severe expression.

“You have; and I’ve restrained a good many of them,” replied the
insect. “But there are opportunities for so many excellent puns in our
language that, to an educated person like myself, the temptation to
express them is almost irresistible.”

“People with more or less education discovered those puns centuries
ago,” said Tip.

“Are you sure?” asked the Woggle-Bug, with a startled look.

“Of course I am,” answered the boy. “An educated Woggle-Bug may be a
new thing; but a Woggle-Bug education is as old as the hills, judging
from the display you make of it.”

The insect seemed much impressed by this remark, and for a time
maintained a meek silence.

The Scarecrow, in shifting his seat, saw upon the cushions the
pepper-box which Tip had cast aside, and began to examine it.

“Throw it overboard,” said the boy; “it’s quite empty now, and there’s
no use keeping it.”

“Is it really empty?” asked the Scarecrow, looking curiously into the
box.

“Of course it is,” answered Tip. “I shook out every grain of the
powder.”

“Then the box has two bottoms,” announced the Scarecrow, “for the
bottom on the inside is fully an inch away from the bottom on the
outside.”

“Let me see,” said the Tin Woodman, taking the box from his friend.
“Yes,” he declared, after looking it over, “the thing certainly has a
false bottom. Now, I wonder what that is for?”

“Can’t you get it apart, and find out?” enquired Tip, now quite
interested in the mystery.

“Why, yes; the lower bottom unscrews,” said the Tin Woodman. “My
fingers are rather stiff; please see if you can open it.”

He handed the pepper-box to Tip, who had no difficulty in unscrewing
the bottom. And in the cavity below were three silver pills, with a
carefully folded paper lying underneath them.

This paper the boy proceeded to unfold, taking care not to spill the
pills, and found several lines clearly written in red ink.

“Read it aloud,” said the Scarecrow. so Tip read, as follows:

“DR. NIKIDIK’S CELEBRATED WISHING PILLS.

“_Directions for Use:_ Swallow one pill; count seventeen by twos; then
make a Wish. The Wish will immediately be granted.

CAUTION: Keep in a Dry and Dark Place.”

“Why, this is a very valuable discovery!” cried the Scarecrow.

“It is, indeed,” replied Tip, gravely. “These pills may be of great use
to us. I wonder if old Mombi knew they were in the bottom of the
pepper-box. I remember hearing her say that she got the Powder of Life
from this same Nikidik.”

“He must be a powerful Sorcerer!” exclaimed the Tin Woodman; “and since
the powder proved a success we ought to have confidence in the pills.”

“But how,” asked the Scarecrow, “can anyone count seventeen by twos?
Seventeen is an odd number.”

“That is true,” replied Tip, greatly disappointed. “No one can possibly
count seventeen by twos.”

“Then the pills are of no use to us,” wailed the Pumpkinhead; “and this
fact overwhelms me with grief. For I had intended wishing that my head
would never spoil.”

“Nonsense!” said the Scarecrow, sharply. “If we could use the pills at
all we would make far better wishes than that.”

“I do not see how anything could be better,” protested poor Jack. “If
you were liable to spoil at any time you could understand my anxiety.”

“For my part,” said the Tin Woodman, “I sympathize with you in every
respect. But since we cannot count seventeen by twos, sympathy is all
you are liable to get.”

By this time it had become quite dark, and the voyagers found above
them a cloudy sky, through which the rays of the moon could not
penetrate.

The Gump flew steadily on, and for some reason the huge sofa-body
rocked more and more dizzily every hour.

The Woggle-Bug declared he was sea-sick; and Tip was also pale and
somewhat distressed. But the others clung to the backs of the sofas and
did not seem to mind the motion as long as they were not tipped out.

Darker and darker grew the night, and on and on sped the Gump through
the black heavens. The travelers could not even see one another, and an
oppressive silence settled down upon them.

After a long time Tip, who had been thinking deeply, spoke.

“How are we to know when we come to the pallace of Glinda the Good?” he
asked.

“It’s a long way to Glinda’s palace,” answered the Woodman; “I’ve
traveled it.”

“But how are we to know how fast the Gump is flying?” persisted the
boy. “We cannot see a single thing down on the earth, and before
morning we may be far beyond the place we want to reach.”

“That is all true enough,” the Scarecrow replied, a little uneasily.
“But I do not see how we can stop just now; for we might alight in a
river, or on, the top of a steeple; and that would be a great
disaster.”

So they permitted the Gump to fly on, with regular flops of its great
wings, and waited patiently for morning.

Then Tip’s fears were proven to be well founded; for with the first
streaks of gray dawn they looked over the sides of the sofas and
discovered rolling plains dotted with queer villages, where the houses,
instead of being dome-shaped—as they all are in the Land of Oz—had
slanting roofs that rose to a peak in the center. Odd looking animals
were also moving about upon the open plains, and the country was
unfamiliar to both the Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow, who had formerly
visited Glinda the Good’s domain and knew it well.

“We are lost!” said the Scarecrow, dolefully. “The Gump must have
carried us entirely out of the Land of Oz and over the sandy deserts
and into the terrible outside world that Dorothy told us about.”

“We must get back,” exclaimed the Tin Woodman, earnestly. “we must get
back as soon as possible!”

“Turn around!” cried Tip to the Gump. “turn as quickly as you can!”

“If I do I shall upset,” answered the Gump. “I’m not at all used to
flying, and the best plan would be for me to alight in some place, and
then I can turn around and take a fresh start.”

Just then, however, there seemed to be no stopping-place that would
answer their purpose. They flew over a village so big that the
Woggle-Bug declared it was a city, and then they came to a range of
high mountains with many deep gorges and steep cliffs showing plainly.

“Now is our chance to stop,” said the boy, finding they were very close
to the mountain tops. Then he turned to the Gump and commanded: “Stop
at the first level place you see!”

“Very well,” answered the Gump, and settled down upon a table of rock
that stood between two cliffs.

But not being experienced in such matters, the Gump did not judge his
speed correctly; and instead of coming to a stop upon the flat rock he
missed it by half the width of his body, breaking off both his right
wings against the sharp edge of the rock and then tumbling over and
over down the cliff.

Our friends held on to the sofas as long as they could, but when the
Gump caught on a projecting rock the Thing stopped suddenly—bottom side
up—and all were immediately dumped out.

[Illustration: image239]

By good fortune they fell only a few feet; for underneath them was a
monster nest, built by a colony of Jackdaws in a hollow ledge of rock;
so none of them—not even the Pumpkinhead—was injured by the fall. For
Jack found his precious head resting on the soft breast of the
Scarecrow, which made an excellent cushion; and Tip fell on a mass of
leaves and papers, which saved him from injury. The Woggle-Bug had
bumped his round head against the Saw-Horse, but without causing him
more than a moment’s inconvenience.

The Tin Woodman was at first much alarmed; but finding he had escaped
without even a scratch upon his beautiful nickle-plate he at once
regained his accustomed cheerfulness and turned to address his
comrades.

“Our Journey had ended rather suddenly,” said he; “and we cannot justly
blame our friend the Gump for our accident, because he did the best he
could under the circumstances. But how we are ever to escape from this
nest I must leave to someone with better brains than I possess.”

Here he gazed at the Scarecrow; who crawled to the edge of the nest and
looked over. Below them was a sheer precipice several hundred feet in
depth. Above them was a smooth cliff unbroken save by the point of rock
where the wrecked body of the Gump still hung suspended from the end of
one of the sofas. There really seemed to be no means of escape, and as
they realized their helpless plight the little band of adventurers gave
way to their bewilderment.

“This is a worse prison than the palace,” sadly remarked the
Woggle-Bug.

“I wish we had stayed there,” moaned Jack.

“I’m afraid the mountain air isn’t good for pumpkins.”

“It won’t be when the Jackdaws come back,” growled the Saw-Horse, which
lay waving its legs in a vain endeavor to get upon its feet again.
“Jackdaws are especially fond of pumpkins.”

“Do you think the birds will come here?” asked Jack, much distressed.

“Of course they will,” said Tip; “for this is their nest. And there
must be hundreds of them,” he continued, “for see what a lot of things
they have brought here!”

Indeed, the nest was half filled with a most curious collection of
small articles for which the birds could have no use, but which the
thieving Jackdaws had stolen during many years from the homes of men.
And as the nest was safely hidden where no human being could reach it,
this lost property would never be recovered.

[Illustration: image242]

The Woggle-Bug, searching among the rubbish—for the Jackdaws stole
useless things as well as valuable ones—turned up with his foot a
beautiful diamond necklace. This was so greatly admired by the Tin
Woodman that the Woggle-Bug presented it to him with a graceful speech,
after which the Woodman hung it around his neck with much pride,
rejoicing exceedingly when the big diamonds glittered in the sun’s
rays.

But now they heard a great jabbering and flopping of wings, and as the
sound grew nearer to them Tip exclaimed:

“The Jackdaws are coming! And if they find us here they will surely
kill us in their anger.”

“I was afraid of this!” moaned the Pumpkinhead. “My time has come!”

“And mine, also!” said the Woggle-Bug; “for Jackdaws are the greatest
enemies of my race.”

The others were not at all afraid; but the Scarecrow at once decided to
save those of the party who were liable to be injured by the angry
birds. So he commanded Tip to take off Jack’s head and lie down with it
in the bottom of the nest, and when this was done he ordered the
Woggle-Bug to lie beside Tip. Nick Chopper, who knew from past
experience Just what to do, then took the Scarecrow to pieces (all
except his head) and scattered the straw over Tip and the Woggle-Bug,
completely covering their bodies.

Hardly had this been accomplished when the flock of Jackdaws reached
them. Perceiving the intruders in their nest the birds flew down upon
them with screams of rage.

[Illustration: image244]

[Illustration: image245]




Dr. Nikidik’s Famous Wishing Pills


The Tin Woodman was usually a peaceful man, but when occasion required
he could fight as fiercely as a Roman gladiator. So, when the Jackdaws
nearly knocked him down in their rush of wings, and their sharp beaks
and claws threatened to damage his brilliant plating, the Woodman
picked up his axe and made it whirl swiftly around his head.

But although many were beaten off in this way, the birds were so
numerous and so brave that they continued the attack as furiously as
before. Some of them pecked at the eyes of the Gump, which hung over
the nest in a helpless condition; but the Gump’s eyes were of glass and
could not be injured. Others of the Jackdaws rushed at the Saw-Horse;
but that animal, being still upon his back, kicked out so viciously
with his wooden legs that he beat off as many assailants as did the
Woodman’s axe.

Finding themselves thus opposed, the birds fell upon the Scarecrow’s
straw, which lay at the center of the nest, covering Tip and the
Woggle-Bug and Jack’s pumpkin head, and began tearing it away and
flying off with it, only to let it drop, straw by straw into the great
gulf beneath.

[Illustration: image247]

The Scarecrow’s head, noting with dismay this wanton destruction of his
interior, cried to the Tin Woodman to save him; and that good friend
responded with renewed energy. His axe fairly flashed among the
Jackdaws, and fortunately the Gump began wildly waving the two wings
remaining on the left side of its body. The flutter of these great
wings filled the Jackdaws with terror, and when the Gump by its
exertions freed itself from the peg of rock on which it hung, and sank
flopping into the nest, the alarm of the birds knew no bounds and they
fled screaming over the mountains.

When the last foe had disappeared, Tip crawled from under the sofas and
assisted the Woggle-Bug to follow him.

“We are saved!” shouted the boy, delightedly.

“We are, indeed!” responded the Educated Insect, fairly hugging the
stiff head of the Gump in his joy. “and we owe it all to the flopping
of the Thing, and the good axe of the Woodman!”

“If I am saved, get me out of here!” called Jack; whose head was still
beneath the sofas; and Tip managed to roll the pumpkin out and place it
upon its neck again. He also set the Saw-Horse upright, and said to it:

“We owe you many thanks for the gallant fight you made.”

“I really think we have escaped very nicely,” remarked the Tin Woodman,
in a tone of pride.

“Not so!” exclaimed a hollow voice.

At this they all turned in surprise to look at the Scarecrow’s head,
which lay at the back of the nest.

“I am completely ruined!” declared the Scarecrow, as he noted their
astonishment. “For where is the straw that stuffs my body?”

The awful question startled them all. They gazed around the nest with
horror, for not a vestige of straw remained. The Jackdaws had stolen it
to the last wisp and flung it all into the chasm that yawned for
hundreds of feet beneath the nest.

[Illustration: image249]

“My poor, poor friend!” said the Tin Woodman, taking up the Scarecrow’s
head and caressing it tenderly; “whoever could imagine you would come
to this untimely end?”

“I did it to save my friends,” returned the head; “and I am glad that I
perished in so noble and unselfish a manner.”

“But why are you all so despondent?” inquired the Woggle-Bug. “The
Scarecrow’s clothing is still safe.”

“Yes,” answered the Tin Woodman; “but our friend’s clothes are useless
without stuffing.”

“Why not stuff him with money?” asked Tip.

“Money!” they all cried, in an amazed chorus.

“To be sure,” said the boy. “In the bottom of the nest are thousands of
dollar bills—and two-dollar bills—and five-dollar bills—and tens, and
twenties, and fifties. There are enough of them to stuff a dozen
Scarecrows. Why not use the money?”

The Tin Woodman began to turn over the rubbish with the handle of his
axe; and, sure enough, what they had first thought only worthless
papers were found to be all bills of various denominations, which the
mischievous Jackdaws had for years been engaged in stealing from the
villages and cities they visited.

There was an immense fortune lying in that inaccessible nest; and Tip’s
suggestion was, with the Scarecrow’s consent, quickly acted upon.

They selected all the newest and cleanest bills and assorted them into
various piles. The Scarecrow’s left leg and boot were stuffed with
five-dollar bills; his right leg was stuffed with ten-dollar bills, and
his body so closely filled with fifties, one-hundreds and one-thousands
that he could scarcely button his jacket with comfort.

[Illustration: image251]

“You are now” said the Woggle-Bug, impressively, when the task had been
completed, “the most valuable member of our party; and as you are among
faithful friends there is little danger of your being spent.”

“Thank you,” returned the Scarecrow, gratefully. “I feel like a new
man; and although at first glance I might be mistaken for a Safety
Deposit Vault, I beg you to remember that my Brains are still composed
of the same old material. And these are the possessions that have
always made me a person to be depended upon in an emergency.”

“Well, the emergency is here,” observed Tip; “and unless your brains
help us out of it we shall be compelled to pass the remainder of our
lives in this nest.”

“How about these wishing pills?” enquired the Scarecrow, taking the box
from his jacket pocket. “Can’t we use them to escape?”

“Not unless we can count seventeen by twos,” answered the Tin Woodman.
“But our friend the Woggle-Bug claims to be highly educated, so he
ought easily to figure out how that can be done.”

“It isn’t a question of education,” returned the Insect; “it’s merely a
question of mathematics. I’ve seen the professor work lots of sums on
the blackboard, and he claimed anything could be done with x’s and y’s
and a’s, and such things, by mixing them up with plenty of plusses and
minuses and equals, and so forth. But he never said anything, so far as
I can remember, about counting up to the odd number of seventeen by the
even numbers of twos.”

“Stop! stop!” cried the Pumpkinhead. “You’re making my head ache.”

“And mine,” added the Scarecrow. “Your mathematics seem to me very like
a bottle of mixed pickles the more you fish for what you want the less
chance you have of getting it. I am certain that if the thing can be
accomplished at all, it is in a very simple manner.”

“Yes,” said Tip. “old Mombi couldn’t use x’s and minuses, for she never
went to school.”

“Why not start counting at a half of one?” asked the Saw-Horse,
abruptly. “Then anyone can count up to seventeen by twos very easily.”

They looked at each other in surprise, for the Saw-Horse was considered
the most stupid of the entire party.

“You make me quite ashamed of myself,” said the Scarecrow, bowing low
to the Saw-Horse.

“Nevertheless, the creature is right,” declared the Woggle-Bug; “for
twice one-half is one, and if you get to one it is easy to count from
one up to seventeen by twos.”

“I wonder I didn’t think of that myself,” said the Pumpkinhead.

“I don’t,” returned the Scarecrow. “You’re no wiser than the rest of
us, are you? But let us make a wish at once. Who will swallow the first
pill?”

“Suppose you do it,” suggested Tip.

“I can’t,” said the Scarecrow.

“Why not? You’ve a mouth, haven’t you?” asked the boy.

“Yes; but my mouth is painted on, and there’s no swallow connected with
it,” answered the Scarecrow. “In fact,” he continued, looking from one
to another critically, “I believe the boy and the Woggle-Bug are the
only ones in our party that are able to swallow.”

Observing the truth of this remark, Tip said:

“Then I will undertake to make the first wish. Give me one of the
Silver Pills.”

This the Scarecrow tried to do; but his padded gloves were too clumsy
to clutch so small an object, and he held the box toward the boy while
Tip selected one of the pills and swallowed it.

“Count!” cried the Scarecrow.

“One-half, one, three, five, seven, nine, eleven,” counted Tip.
“thirteen, fifteen, seventeen.”

“Now wish!” said the Tin Woodman anxiously:

But Just then the boy began to suffer such fearful pains that he became
alarmed.

“The pill has poisoned me!” he gasped; “O—h! O-o-o-o-o! Ouch! Murder!
Fire! O-o-h!” and here he rolled upon the bottom of the nest in such
contortions that he frightened them all.

“What can we do for you. Speak, I beg!” entreated the Tin Woodman,
tears of sympathy running down his nickel cheeks.

“I—I don’t know!” answered Tip. “O—h! I wish I’d never swallowed that
pill!”

Then at once the pain stopped, and the boy rose to his feet again and
found the Scarecrow looking with amazement at the end of the
pepper-box.

“What’s happened?” asked the boy, a little ashamed of his recent
exhibition.

“Why, the three pills are in the box again!” said the Scarecrow.

“Of course they are,” the Woggle-Bug declared. “Didn’t Tip wish that
he’d never swallowed one of them? Well, the wish came true, and he
_didn’t_ swallow one of them. So of course they are all three in the
box.”

“That may be; but the pill gave me a dreadful pain, just the same,”
said the boy.

“Impossible!” declared the Woggle-Bug. “If you have never swallowed it,
the pill can not have given you a pain. And as your wish, being
granted, proves you did not swallow the pill, it is also plain that you
suffered no pain.”

[Illustration: image255]

“Then it was a splendid imitation of a pain,” retorted Tip, angrily.
“Suppose you try the next pill yourself. We’ve wasted one wish
already.”

“Oh, no, we haven’t!” protested the Scarecrow. “Here are still three
pills in the box, and each pill is good for a wish.”

“Now you’re making _my_ head ache,” said Tip. “I can’t understand the
thing at all. But I won’t take another pill, I promise you!” and with
this remark he retired sulkily to the back of the nest.

“Well,” said the Woggle-Bug, “it remains for me to save us in my most
Highly Magnified and Thoroughly Educated manner; for I seem to be the
only one able and willing to make a wish. Let me have one of the
pills.”

He swallowed it without hesitation, and they all stood admiring his
courage while the Insect counted seventeen by twos in the same way that
Tip had done. And for some reason—perhaps because Woggle-Bugs have
stronger stomachs than boys—the silver pellet caused it no pain
whatever.

“I wish the Gump’s broken wings mended, and as good as new!” said the
Woggle-Bug, in a slow; impressive voice.

All turned to look at the Thing, and so quickly had the wish been
granted that the Gump lay before them in perfect repair, and as well
able to fly through the air as when it had first been brought to life
on the roof of the palace.

[Illustration: image257]

[Illustration: image258]

[Illustration: image259]




The Scarecrow Appeals to Glinda the Good


“Hooray!” shouted the Scarecrow, gaily. “We can now leave this
miserable Jackdaws’ nest whenever we please.”

“But it is nearly dark,” said the Tin Woodman; “and unless we wait
until morning to make our flight we may get into more trouble. I don’t
like these night trips, for one never knows what will happen.”

So it was decided to wait until daylight, and the adventurers amused
themselves in the twilight by searching the Jackdaws’ nest for
treasures.

The Woggle-Bug found two handsome bracelets of wrought gold, which
fitted his slender arms very well. The Scarecrow took a fancy for
rings, of which there were many in the nest. Before long he had fitted
a ring to each finger of his padded gloves, and not being content with
that display he added one more to each thumb. As he carefully chose
those rings set with sparkling stones, such as rubies, amethysts and
sapphires, the Scarecrow’s hands now presented a most brilliant
appearance.

“This nest would be a picnic for Queen Jinjur,” said he, musingly. “for
as nearly as I can make out she and her girls conquered me merely to
rob my city of its emeralds.”

The Tin Woodman was content with his diamond necklace and refused to
accept any additional decorations; but Tip secured a fine gold watch,
which was attached to a heavy fob, and placed it in his pocket with
much pride. He also pinned several jeweled brooches to Jack
Pumpkinhead’s red waistcoat, and attached a lorgnette, by means of a
fine chain, to the neck of the Saw-Horse.

“It’s very pretty,” said the creature, regarding the lorgnette
approvingly; “but what is it for?”

None of them could answer that question, however; so the Saw-Horse
decided it was some rare decoration and became very fond of it.

That none of the party might be slighted, they ended by placing several
large seal rings upon the points of the Gump’s antlers, although that
odd personage seemed by no means gratified by the attention.

Darkness soon fell upon them, and Tip and the Woggle-Bug went to sleep
while the others sat down to wait patiently for the day.

Next morning they had cause to congratulate themselves upon the useful
condition of the Gump; for with daylight a great flock of Jackdaws
approached to engage in one more battle for the possession of the nest.

But our adventurers did not wait for the assault. They tumbled into the
cushioned seats of the sofas as quickly as possible, and Tip gave the
word to the Gump to start.

At once it rose into the air, the great wings flopping strongly and
with regular motions, and in a few moments they were so far from the
nest that the chattering Jackdaws took possession without any attempt
at pursuit.

The Thing flew due North, going in the same direction from whence it
had come. At least, that was the Scarecrow’s opinion, and the others
agreed that the Scarecrow was the best judge of direction. After
passing over several cities and villages the Gump carried them high
above a broad plain where houses became more and more scattered until
they disappeared altogether. Next came the wide, sandy desert
separating the rest of the world from the Land of Oz, and before noon
they saw the dome-shaped houses that proved they were once more within
the borders of their native land.

“But the houses and fences are blue,” said the Tin Woodman, “and that
indicates we are in the land of the Munchkins, and therefore a long
distance from Glinda the Good.”

“What shall we do?” asked the boy, turning to their guide.

“I don’t know” replied the Scarecrow, frankly. “If we were at the
Emerald City we could then move directly southward, and so reach our
destination. But we dare not go to the Emerald City, and the Gump is
probably carrying us further in the wrong direction with every flop of
its wings.”

“Then the Woggle-Bug must swallow another pill,” said Tip, decidedly,
“and wish us headed in the right direction.”

“Very well,” returned the Highly Magnified one; “I’m willing.”

But when the Scarecrow searched in his pocket for the pepper-box
containing the two silver Wishing Pills, it was not to be found. Filled
with anxiety, the voyagers hunted throughout every inch of the Thing
for the precious box; but it had disappeared entirely.

And still the Gump flew onward, carrying them they knew not where.

“I must have left the pepper-box in the Jackdaws’ nest,” said the
Scarecrow, at length.

“It is a great misfortune,” the Tin Woodman declared. “But we are no
worse off than before we discovered the Wishing Pills.”

“We are better off,” replied Tip. “for the one pill we used has enabled
us to escape from that horrible nest.”

“Yet the loss of the other two is serious, and I deserve a good
scolding for my carelessness,” the Scarecrow rejoined, penitently. “For
in such an unusual party as this accidents are liable to happen any
moment, and even now we may be approaching a new danger.”

No one dared contradict this, and a dismal silence ensued.

The Gump flew steadily on.

Suddenly Tip uttered an exclamation of surprise. “We must have reached
the South Country,” he cried, “for below us everything is red!”

Immediately they all leaned over the backs of the sofas to look—all
except Jack, who was too careful of his pumpkin head to risk its
slipping off his neck. Sure enough; the red houses and fences and trees
indicated they were within the domain of Glinda the Good; and
presently, as they glided rapidly on, the Tin Woodman recognized the
roads and buildings they passed, and altered slightly the flight of the
Gump so that they might reach the palace of the celebrated Sorceress.

[Illustration: image264]

“Good!” cried the Scarecrow, delightedly. “We do not need the lost
Wishing Pills now, for we have arrived at our destination.”

Gradually the Thing sank lower and nearer to the ground until at length
it came to rest within the beautiful gardens of Glinda, settling upon a
velvety green lawn close by a fountain which sent sprays of flashing
gems, instead of water, high into the air, whence they fell with a
soft, tinkling sound into the carved marble basin placed to receive
them.

Everything was very gorgeous in Glinda’s gardens, and while our
voyagers gazed about with admiring eyes a company of soldiers silently
appeared and surrounded them. But these soldiers of the great Sorceress
were entirely different from those of Jinjur’s Army of Revolt, although
they were likewise girls. For Glinda’s soldiers wore neat uniforms and
bore swords and spears; and they marched with a skill and precision
that proved them well trained in the arts of war.

The Captain commanding this troop—which was Glinda’s private Body
Guard—recognized the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman at once, and greeted
them with respectful salutations.

“Good day!” said the Scarecrow, gallantly removing his hat, while the
Woodman gave a soldierly salute; “we have come to request an audience
with your fair Ruler.”

“Glinda is now within her palace, awaiting you,” returned the Captain;
“for she saw you coming long before you arrived.”

“That is strange!” said Tip, wondering.

“Not at all,” answered the Scarecrow, “for Glinda the Good is a mighty
Sorceress, and nothing that goes on in the Land of Oz escapes her
notice. I suppose she knows why we came as well as we do ourselves.”

“Then what was the use of our coming?” asked Jack, stupidly.

“To prove you are a Pumpkinhead!” retorted the Scarecrow. “But, if the
Sorceress expects us, we must not keep her waiting.”

So they all clambered out of the sofas and followed the Captain toward
the palace—even the Saw-Horse taking his place in the queer procession.

Upon her throne of finely wrought gold sat Glinda, and she could
scarcely repress a smile as her peculiar visitors entered and bowed
before her. Both the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman she knew and liked;
but the awkward Pumpkinhead and Highly Magnified Woggle-Bug were
creatures she had never seen before, and they seemed even more curious
than the others. As for the Saw-Horse, he looked to be nothing more
than an animated chunk of wood; and he bowed so stiffly that his head
bumped against the floor, causing a ripple of laughter among the
soldiers, in which Glinda frankly joined.

[Illustration: image266]

“I beg to announce to your glorious highness,” began the Scarecrow, in
a solemn voice, “that my Emerald City has been overrun by a crowd of
impudent girls with knitting-needles, who have enslaved all the men,
robbed the streets and public buildings of all their emerald jewels,
and usurped my throne.”

“I know it,” said Glinda.

“They also threatened to destroy me, as well as all the good friends
and allies you see before you,” continued the Scarecrow. “and had we
not managed to escape their clutches our days would long since have
ended.”

“I know it,” repeated Glinda.

“Therefore I have come to beg your assistance,” resumed the Scarecrow,
“for I believe you are always glad to succor the unfortunate and
oppressed.”

“That is true,” replied the Sorceress, slowly. “But the Emerald City is
now ruled by General Jinjur, who has caused herself to be proclaimed
Queen. What right have I to oppose her?”

“Why, she stole the throne from me,” said the Scarecrow.

“And how came you to possess the throne?” asked Glinda.

“I got it from the Wizard of Oz, and by the choice of the people,”
returned the Scarecrow, uneasy at such questioning.

“And where did the Wizard get it?” she continued gravely.

“I am told he took it from Pastoria, the former King,” said the
Scarecrow, becoming confused under the intent look of the Sorceress.

“Then,” declared Glinda, “the throne of the Emerald City belongs
neither to you nor to Jinjur, but to this Pastoria from whom the Wizard
usurped it.”

“That is true,” acknowledged the Scarecrow, humbly; “but Pastoria is
now dead and gone, and some one must rule in his place.”

“Pastoria had a daughter, who is the rightful heir to the throne of the
Emerald City. Did you know that?” questioned the Sorceress.

“No,” replied the Scarecrow. “But if the girl still lives I will not
stand in her way. It will satisfy me as well to have Jinjur turned out,
as an impostor, as to regain the throne myself. In fact, it isn’t much
fun to be King, especially if one has good brains. I have known for
some time that I am fitted to occupy a far more exalted position. But
where is the girl who owns the throne, and what is her name?”

“Her name is Ozma,” answered Glinda. “But where she is I have tried in
vain to discover. For the Wizard of Oz, when he stole the throne from
Ozma’s father, hid the girl in some secret place; and by means of a
magical trick with which I am not familiar he also managed to prevent
her being discovered—even by so experienced a Sorceress as myself.”

“That is strange,” interrupted the Woggle-Bug, pompously. “I have been
informed that the Wonderful Wizard of Oz was nothing more than a
humbug!”

“Nonsense!” exclaimed the Scarecrow, much provoked by this speech.
“Didn’t he give me a wonderful set of brains?”

“There’s no humbug about my heart,” announced the Tin Woodman, glaring
indignantly at the Woggle-Bug.

“Perhaps I was misinformed,” stammered the Insect, shrinking back; “I
never knew the Wizard personally.”

“Well, we did,” retorted the Scarecrow, “and he was a very great
Wizard, I assure you. It is true he was guilty of some slight
impostures, but unless he was a great Wizard how—let me ask—could he
have hidden this girl Ozma so securely that no one can find her?”

“I—I give it up!” replied the Woggle-Bug, meekly.

“That is the most sensible speech you’ve made,” said the Tin Woodman.

“I must really make another effort to discover where this girl is
hidden,” resumed the Sorceress, thoughtfully. “I have in my library a
book in which is inscribed every action of the Wizard while he was in
our land of Oz—or, at least, every action that could be observed by my
spies. This book I will read carefully tonight, and try to single out
the acts that may guide us in discovering the lost Ozma. In the
meantime, pray amuse yourselves in my palace and command my servants as
if they were your own. I will grant you another audience tomorrow.”

[Illustration: image271]

With this gracious speech Glinda dismissed the adventurers, and they
wandered away through the beautiful gardens, where they passed several
hours enjoying all the delightful things with which the Queen of the
Southland had surrounded her royal palace.

On the following morning they again appeared before Glinda, who said to
them:

“I have searched carefully through the records of the Wizard’s actions,
and among them I can find but three that appear to have been
suspicious. He ate beans with a knife, made three secret visits to old
Mombi, and limped slightly on his left foot.”

“Ah! that last is certainly suspicious!” exclaimed the Pumpkinhead.

“Not necessarily,” said the Scarecrow. “he may, have had corns. Now, it
seems to me his eating beans with a knife is more suspicious.”

“Perhaps it is a polite custom in Omaha, from which great country the
Wizard originally came,” suggested the Tin Woodman.

“It may be,” admitted the Scarecrow.

“But why,” asked Glinda, “did he make three secret visits to old
Mombi?”

“Ah! Why, indeed!” echoed the Woggle-Bug, impressively.

“We know that the Wizard taught the old woman many of his tricks of
magic,” continued Glinda; “and this he would not have done had she not
assisted him in some way. So we may suspect with good reason that Mombi
aided him to hide the girl Ozma, who was the real heir to the throne of
the Emerald City, and a constant danger to the usurper. For, if the
people knew that she lived, they would quickly make her their Queen and
restore her to her rightful position.”

“An able argument!” cried the Scarecrow. “I have no doubt that Mombi
was mixed up in this wicked business. But how does that knowledge help
us?”

“We must find Mombi,” replied Glinda, “and force her to tell where the
girl is hidden.”

“Mombi is now with Queen Jinjur, in the Emerald, City” said Tip. “It
was she who threw so many obstacles in our pathway, and made Jinjur
threaten to destroy my friends and give me back into the old witch’s
power.”

“Then,” decided Glinda, “I will march with my army to the Emerald City,
and take Mombi prisoner. After that we can, perhaps, force her to tell
the truth about Ozma.”

“She is a terrible old woman!” remarked Tip, with a shudder at the
thought of Mombi’s black kettle; “and obstinate, too.”

“I am quite obstinate myself,” returned the Sorceress, with a sweet
smile. “so I do not fear Mombi in the least. Today I will make all
necessary preparations, and we will march upon the Emerald City at
daybreak tomorrow.”

[Illustration: image275]

[Illustration: image276]

[Illustration: image277]




The Tin-Woodman Plucks a Rose


The Army of Glinda the Good looked very grand and imposing when it
assembled at daybreak before the palace gates. The uniforms of the girl
soldiers were pretty and of gay colors, and their silver-tipped spears
were bright and glistening, the long shafts being inlaid with
mother-of-pearl. All the officers wore sharp, gleaming swords, and
shields edged with peacock-feathers; and it really seemed that no foe
could by any possibility defeat such a brilliant army.

The Sorceress rode in a beautiful palanquin which was like the body of
a coach, having doors and windows with silken curtains; but instead of
wheels, which a coach has, the palanquin rested upon two long,
horizontal bars, which were borne upon the shoulders of twelve
servants.

The Scarecrow and his comrades decided to ride in the Gump, in order to
keep up with the swift march of the army; so, as soon as Glinda had
started and her soldiers had marched away to the inspiring strains of
music played by the royal band, our friends climbed into the sofas and
followed. The Gump flew along slowly at a point directly over the
palanquin in which rode the Sorceress.

[Illustration: image278]

“Be careful,” said the Tin Woodman to the Scarecrow, who was leaning
far over the side to look at the army below. “You might fall.”

“It wouldn’t matter,” remarked the educated Woggle-Bug. “he can’t get
broke so long as he is stuffed with money.”

“Didn’t I ask you” began Tip, in a reproachful voice.

“You did!” said the Woggle-Bug, promptly. “And I beg your pardon. I
will really try to restrain myself.”

“You’d better,” declared the boy. “That is, if you wish to travel in
our company.”

“Ah! I couldn’t bear to part with you now,” murmured the Insect,
feelingly; so Tip let the subject drop.

The army moved steadily on, but night had fallen before they came to
the walls of the Emerald City. By the dim light of the new moon,
however, Glinda’s forces silently surrounded the city and pitched their
tents of scarlet silk upon the greensward. The tent of the Sorceress
was larger than the others, and was composed of pure white silk, with
scarlet banners flying above it. A tent was also pitched for the
Scarecrow’s party; and when these preparations had been made, with
military precision and quickness, the army retired to rest.

Great was the amazement of Queen Jinjur next morning when her soldiers
came running to inform her of the vast army surrounding them. She at
once climbed to a high tower of the royal palace and saw banners waving
in every direction and the great white tent of Glinda standing directly
before the gates.

“We are surely lost!” cried Jinjur, in despair; “for how can our
knitting-needles avail against the long spears and terrible swords of
our foes?”

“The best thing we can do,” said one of the girls, “is to surrender as
quickly as possible, before we get hurt.”

“Not so,” returned Jinjur, more bravely. “The enemy is still outside
the walls, so we must try to gain time by engaging them in parley. Go
you with a flag of truce to Glinda and ask her why she has dared to
invade my dominions, and what are her demands.”

So the girl passed through the gates, bearing a white flag to show she
was on a mission of peace, and came to Glinda’s tent. “Tell your
Queen,” said the Sorceress to the girl, “that she must deliver up to me
old Mombi, to be my prisoner. If this is done I will not molest her
farther.”

[Illustration: image280]

Now when this message was delivered to the Queen it filled her with
dismay, for Mombi was her chief counsellor, and Jinjur was terribly
afraid of the old hag. But she sent for Mombi, and told her what Glinda
had said.

“I see trouble ahead for all of us,” muttered the old witch, after
glancing into a magic mirror she carried in her pocket. “But we may
even yet escape by deceiving this sorceress, clever as she thinks
herself.”

“Don’t you think it will be safer for me to deliver you into her
hands?” asked Jinjur, nervously.

“If you do, it will cost you the throne of the Emerald City!” answered
the witch, positively. “But if you will let me have my own way, I can
save us both very easily.”

“Then do as you please,” replied Jinjur, “for it is so aristocratic to
be a Queen that I do not wish to be obliged to return home again, to
make beds and wash dishes for my mother.”

So Mombi called Jellia Jamb to her, and performed a certain magical
rite with which she was familiar. As a result of the enchantment Jellia
took on the form and features of Mombi, while the old witch grew to
resemble the girl so closely that it seemed impossible anyone could
guess the deception.

“Now,” said old Mombi to the Queen, “let your soldiers deliver up this
girl to Glinda. She will think she has the real Mombi in her power, and
so will return immediately to her own country in the South.”

[Illustration: image282]

Therefore Jellia, hobbling along like an aged woman, was led from the
city gates and taken before Glinda.

“Here is the person you demanded,” said one of the guards, “and our
Queen now begs you will go away, as you promised, and leave us in
peace.”

“That I will surely do,” replied Glinda, much pleased; “if this is
really the person she seems to be.”

“It is certainly old Mombi,” said the guard, who believed she was
speaking the truth; and then Jinjur’s soldiers returned within the
city’s gates.

The Sorceress quickly summoned the Scarecrow and his friends to her
tent, and began to question the supposed Mombi about the lost girl
Ozma. But Jellia knew nothing at all of this affair, and presently she
grew so nervous under the questioning that she gave way and began to
weep, to Glinda’s great astonishment.

“Here is some foolish trickery!” said the Sorceress, her eyes flashing
with anger. “This is not Mombi at all, but some other person who has
been made to resemble her! Tell me,” she demanded, turning to the
trembling girl, “what is your name?”

This Jellia dared not tell, having been threatened with death by the
witch if she confessed the fraud. But Glinda, sweet and fair though she
was, understood magic better than any other person in the Land of Oz.
So, by uttering a few potent words and making a peculiar gesture, she
quickly transformed the girl into her proper shape, while at the same
time old Mombi, far away in Jinjur’s palace, suddenly resumed her own
crooked form and evil features.

“Why, it’s Jellia Jamb!” cried the Scarecrow, recognizing in the girl
one of his old friends.

“It’s our interpreter!” said the Pumpkinhead, smiling pleasantly.

[Illustration: image284]

Then Jellia was forced to tell of the trick Mombi had played and she
also begged Glinda’s protection, which the Sorceress readily granted.
But Glinda was now really angry, and sent word to Jinjur that the fraud
was discovered and she must deliver up the real Mombi or suffer
terrible consequences. Jinjur was prepared for this message, for the
witch well understood, when her natural form was thrust upon her, that
Glinda had discovered her trickery. But the wicked old creature had
already thought up a new deception, and had made Jinjur promise to
carry it out. So the Queen said to Glinda’s messenger:

“Tell your mistress that I cannot find Mombi anywhere, but that Glinda
is welcome to enter the city and search herself for the old woman. She
may also bring her friends with her, if she likes; but if she does not
find Mombi by sundown, the Sorceress must promise to go away peaceably
and bother us no more.”

Glinda agreed to these terms, well knowing that Mombi was somewhere
within the city walls. So Jinjur caused the gates to be thrown open,
and Glinda marched in at the head of a company of soldiers, followed by
the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, while Jack Pumpkinhead rode astride
the Saw-Horse, and the Educated, Highly Magnified Woggle-Bug sauntered
behind in a dignified manner. Tip walked by the side of the Sorceress,
for Glinda had conceived a great liking for the boy.

Of course old Mombi had no intention of being found by Glinda; so,
while her enemies were marching up the street, the witch transformed
herself into a red rose growing upon a bush in the garden of the
palace. It was a clever idea, and a trick Glinda did not suspect; so
several precious hours were spent in a vain search for Mombi.

As sundown approached the Sorceress realized she had been defeated by
the superior cunning of the aged witch; so she gave the command to her
people to march out of the city and back to their tents.

The Scarecrow and his comrades happened to be searching in the garden
of the palace just then, and they turned with disappointment to obey
Glinda’s command. But before they left the garden the Tin Woodman, who
was fond of flowers, chanced to espy a big red rose growing upon a
bush; so he plucked the flower and fastened it securely in the tin
buttonhole of his tin bosom.

[Illustration: image285]

As he did this he fancied he heard a low moan proceed from the rose;
but he paid no attention to the sound, and Mombi was thus carried out
of the city and into Glinda’s camp without anyone having a suspicion
that they had succeeded in their quest.

[Illustration: image288]

[Illustration: image289]




The Transformation of Old Mombi


The Witch was at first frightened at finding herself captured by the
enemy; but soon she decided that she was exactly as safe in the Tin
Woodman’s button-hole as growing upon the bush. For no one knew the
rose and Mombi to be one, and now that she was without the gates of the
City her chances of escaping altogether from Glinda were much improved.

“But there is no hurry,” thought Mombi. “I will wait awhile and enjoy
the humiliation of this Sorceress when she finds I have outwitted her.”
So throughout the night the rose lay quietly on the Woodman’s bosom,
and in the morning, when Glinda summoned our friends to a consultation,
Nick Chopper carried his pretty flower with him to the white silk tent.

“For some reason,” said Glinda, “we have failed to find this cunning
old Mombi; so I fear our expedition will prove a failure. And for that
I am sorry, because without our assistance little Ozma will never be
rescued and restored to her rightful position as Queen of the Emerald
City”

“Do not let us give up so easily,” said the Pumpkinhead. “Let us do
something else.”

“Something else must really be done,” replied Glinda, with a smile.
“yet I cannot understand how I have been defeated so easily by an old
Witch who knows far less of magic than I do myself.”

“While we are on the ground I believe it would be wise for us to
conquer the Emerald City for Princess Ozma, and find the girl
afterward,” said the Scarecrow. “And while the girl remains hidden I
will gladly rule in her place, for I understand the business of ruling
much better than Jinjur does.”

“But I have promised not to molest Jinjur,” objected Glinda.

[Illustration: image290]

“Suppose you all return with me to my kingdom—or Empire, rather,” said
the Tin Woodman, politely including the entire party in a royal wave of
his arm. “It will give me great pleasure to entertain you in my castle,
where there is room enough and to spare. And if any of you wish to be
nickel-plated, my valet will do it free of all expense.”

While the Woodman was speaking Glinda’s eyes had been noting the rose
in his button-hole, and now she imagined she saw the big red leaves of
the flower tremble slightly. This quickly aroused her suspicions, and
in a moment more the Sorceress had decided that the seeming rose was
nothing else than a transformation of old Mombi. At the same instant
Mombi knew she was discovered and must quickly plan an escape, and as
transformations were easy to her she immediately took the form of a
Shadow and glided along the wall of the tent toward the entrance,
thinking thus to disappear.

But Glinda had not only equal cunning, but far more experience than the
Witch. So the Sorceress reached the opening of the tent before the
Shadow, and with a wave of her hand closed the entrance so securely
that Mombi could not find a crack big enough to creep through. The
Scarecrow and his friends were greatly surprised at Glinda’s actions;
for none of them had noted the Shadow. But the Sorceress said to them:

“Remain perfectly quiet, all of you! For the old Witch is even now with
us in this tent, and I hope to capture her.”

These words so alarmed Mombi that she quickly transformed herself from
a shadow to a Black Ant, in which shape she crawled along the ground,
seeking a crack or crevice in which to hide her tiny body.

[Illustration: image293]

Fortunately, the ground where the tent had been pitched, being Just
before the city gates, was hard and smooth; and while the Ant still
crawled about, Glinda discovered it and ran quickly forward to effect
its capture But, Just as her hand was descending, the Witch, now fairly
frantic with fear, made her last transformation, and in the form of a
huge Griffin sprang through the wall of the tent—tearing the silk
asunder in her rush—and in a moment had darted away with the speed of a
whirlwind.

Glinda did not hesitate to follow. She sprang upon the back of the
Saw-Horse and cried:

“Now you shall prove that you have a right to be alive! Run—run—run!”

The Saw-Horse ran. Like a flash he followed the Griffin, his wooden
legs moving so fast that they twinkled like the rays of a star. Before
our friends could recover from their surprise both the Griffin and the
Saw-Horse had dashed out of sight.

“Come! Let us follow!” cried the Scarecrow.

They ran to the place where the Gump was lying and quickly tumbled
aboard.

“Fly!” commanded Tip, eagerly.

“Where to?” asked the Gump, in its calm voice.

“I don’t know,” returned Tip, who was very nervous at the delay; “but
if you will mount into the air I think we can discover which way Glinda
has gone.”

“Very well,” returned the Gump, quietly; and it spread its great wings
and mounted high into the air.

[Illustration: image295]

Far away, across the meadows, they could now see two tiny specks,
speeding one after the other; and they knew these specks must be the
Griffin and the Saw-Horse. So Tip called the Gump’s attention to them
and bade the creature try to overtake the Witch and the Sorceress. But,
swift as was the Gump’s flight, the pursued and pursuer moved more
swiftly yet, and within a few moments were blotted out against the dim
horizon.

“Let us continue to follow them, nevertheless,” said the Scarecrow.
“for the Land of Oz is of small extent, and sooner or later they must
both come to a halt.”

Old Mombi had thought herself very wise to choose the form of a
Griffin, for its legs were exceedingly fleet and its strength more
enduring than that of other animals. But she had not reckoned on the
untiring energy of the Saw-Horse, whose wooden limbs could run for days
without slacking their speed. Therefore, after an hour’s hard running,
the Griffin’s breath began to fail, and it panted and gasped painfully,
and moved more slowly than before. Then it reached the edge of the
desert and began racing across the deep sands. But its tired feet sank
far into the sand, and in a few minutes the Griffin fell forward,
completely exhausted, and lay still upon the desert waste.

Glinda came up a moment later, riding the still vigorous Saw-Horse; and
having unwound a slender golden thread from her girdle the Sorceress
threw it over the head of the panting and helpless Griffin, and so
destroyed the magical power of Mombi’s transformation.

For the animal, with one fierce shudder, disappeared from view, while
in its place was discovered the form of the old Witch, glaring savagely
at the serene and beautiful face of the Sorceress.

[Illustration: image297]

[Illustration: image298]

[Illustration: image299]




Princess Ozma of Oz


“You are my prisoner, and it is useless for you to struggle any
longer,” said Glinda, in her soft, sweet voice. “Lie still a moment,
and rest yourself, and then I will carry you back to my tent.”

“Why do you seek me?” asked Mombi, still scarce able to speak plainly
for lack of breath. “What have I done to you, to be so persecuted?”

“You have done nothing to me,” answered the gentle Sorceress; “but I
suspect you have been guilty of several wicked actions; and if I find
it is true that you have so abused your knowledge of magic, I intend to
punish you severely.”

“I defy you!” croaked the old hag. “You dare not harm me!”

Just then the Gump flew up to them and alighted upon the desert sands
beside Glinda. Our friends were delighted to find that Mombi had
finally been captured, and after a hurried consultation it was decided
they should all return to the camp in the Gump. So the Saw-Horse was
tossed aboard, and then Glinda still holding an end of the golden
thread that was around Mombi’s neck, forced her prisoner to climb into
the sofas. The others now followed, and Tip gave the word to the Gump
to return.

The Journey was made in safety, Mombi sitting in her place with a grim
and sullen air; for the old hag was absolutely helpless so long as the
magical thread encircled her throat. The army hailed Glinda’s return
with loud cheers, and the party of friends soon gathered again in the
royal tent, which had been neatly repaired during their absence.

“Now,” said the Sorceress to Mombi, “I want you to tell us why the
Wonderful Wizard of Oz paid you three visits, and what became of the
child, Ozma, which so curiously disappeared.”

The Witch looked at Glinda defiantly, but said not a word.

“Answer me!” cried the Sorceress.

But still Mombi remained silent.

“Perhaps she doesn’t know,” remarked Jack.

“I beg you will keep quiet,” said Tip. “You might spoil everything with
your foolishness.”

“Very well, dear father!” returned the Pumpkinhead, meekly.

“How glad I am to be a Woggle-Bug!” murmured the Highly Magnified
Insect, softly. “No one can expect wisdom to flow from a pumpkin.”

“Well,” said the Scarecrow, “what shall we do to make Mombi speak?
Unless she tells us what we wish to know her capture will do us no good
at all.”

“Suppose we try kindness,” suggested the Tin Woodman. “I’ve heard that
anyone can be conquered with kindness, no matter how ugly they may be.”

At this the Witch turned to glare upon him so horribly that the Tin
Woodman shrank back abashed.

Glinda had been carefully considering what to do, and now she turned to
Mombi and said:

“You will gain nothing, I assure you, by thus defying us. For I am
determined to learn the truth about the girl Ozma, and unless you tell
me all that you know, I will certainly put you to death.”

“Oh, no! Don’t do that!” exclaimed the Tin Woodman. “It would be an
awful thing to kill anyone—even old Mombi!”

“But it is merely a threat,” returned Glinda. “I shall not put Mombi to
death, because she will prefer to tell me the truth.”

“Oh, I see!” said the tin man, much relieved.

“Suppose I tell you all that you wish to know,”. said Mombi, speaking
so suddenly that she startled them all. “What will you do with me
then?”

“In that case,” replied Glinda, “I shall merely ask you to drink a
powerful draught which will cause you to forget all the magic you have
ever learned.”

“Then I would become a helpless old woman!”

“But you would be alive,” suggested the Pumpkinhead, consolingly.

“Do try to keep silent!” said Tip, nervously.

“I’ll try,” responded Jack; “but you will admit that it’s a good thing
to be alive.”

“Especially if one happens to be Thoroughly Educated,” added the
Woggle-Bug, nodding approval.

“You may make your choice,” Glinda said to old Mombi, “between death if
you remain silent, and the loss of your magical powers if you tell me
the truth. But I think you will prefer to live.”

Mombi cast an uneasy glance at the Sorceress, and saw that she was in
earnest, and not to be trifled with. So she replied, slowly:

“I will answer your questions.”

“That is what I expected,” said Glinda, pleasantly. “You have chosen
wisely, I assure you.”

She then motioned to one of her Captains, who brought her a beautiful
golden casket. From this the Sorceress drew an immense white pearl,
attached to a slender chain which she placed around her neck in such a
way that the pearl rested upon her bosom, directly over her heart.

“Now,” said she, “I will ask my first question: Why did the Wizard pay
you three visits?”

“Because I would not come to him,” answered Mombi.

“That is no answer,” said Glinda, sternly. “Tell me the truth.”

“Well,” returned Mombi, with downcast eyes, “he visited me to learn the
way I make tea-biscuits.”

“Look up!” commanded the Sorceress.

Mombi obeyed.

“What is the color of my pearl?” demanded Glinda.

“Why—it is black!” replied the old Witch, in a tone of wonder.

“Then you have told me a falsehood!” cried Glinda, angrily. “Only when
the truth is spoken will my magic pearl remain a pure white in color.”

Mombi now saw how useless it was to try to deceive the Sorceress; so
she said, meanwhile scowling at her defeat:

“The Wizard brought to me the girl Ozma, who was then no more than a
baby, and begged me to conceal the child.”

“That is what I thought,” declared Glinda, calmly. “What did he give
you for thus serving him?”

“He taught me all the magical tricks he knew. Some were good tricks,
and some were only frauds; but I have remained faithful to my promise.”

“What did you do with the girl?” asked Glinda; and at this question
everyone bent forward and listened eagerly for the reply.

“I enchanted her,” answered Mombi.

“In what way?”

“I transformed her into—into—”

“Into what?” demanded Glinda, as the Witch hesitated.

“_Into a boy!_” said Mombi, in a low tone.

“A boy!” echoed every voice; and then, because they knew that this old
woman had reared Tip from childhood, all eyes were turned to where the
boy stood.

“Yes,” said the old Witch, nodding her head; “that is the Princess
Ozma—the child brought to me by the Wizard who stole her father’s
throne. That is the rightful ruler of the Emerald City!” and she
pointed her long bony finger straight at the boy.

“I!” cried Tip, in amazement. “Why, I’m no Princess Ozma—I’m not a
girl!”

Glinda smiled, and going to Tip she took his small brown hand within
her dainty white one.

“You are not a girl just now” said she, gently, “because Mombi
transformed you into a boy. But you were born a girl, and also a
Princess; so you must resume your proper form, that you may become
Queen of the Emerald City.”

“Oh, let Jinjur be the Queen!” exclaimed Tip, ready to cry. “I want to
stay a boy, and travel with the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, and the
Woggle-Bug, and Jack—yes! and my friend the Saw-Horse—and the Gump! I
don’t want to be a girl!”

“Never mind, old chap,” said the Tin Woodman, soothingly; “it don’t
hurt to be a girl, I’m told; and we will all remain your faithful
friends just the same. And, to be honest with you, I’ve always
considered girls nicer than boys.”

“They’re just as nice, anyway,” added the Scarecrow, patting Tip
affectionately upon the head.

“And they are equally good students,” proclaimed the Woggle-Bug. “I
should like to become your tutor, when you are transformed into a girl
again.”

“But—see here!” said Jack Pumpkinhead, with a gasp: “if you become a
girl, you can’t be my dear father any more!”

“No,” answered Tip, laughing in spite of his anxiety. “and I shall not
be sorry to escape the relationship.” Then he added, hesitatingly, as
he turned to Glinda: “I might try it for awhile,-just to see how it
seems, you know. But if I don’t like being a girl you must promise to
change me into a boy again.”

“Really,” said the Sorceress, “that is beyond my magic. I never deal in
transformations, for they are not honest, and no respectable sorceress
likes to make things appear to be what they are not. Only unscrupulous
witches use the art, and therefore I must ask Mombi to effect your
release from her charm, and restore you to your proper form. It will be
the last opportunity she will have to practice magic.”

Now that the truth about Princes Ozma had been discovered, Mombi did
not care what became of Tip; but she feared Glinda’s anger, and the boy
generously promised to provide for Mombi in her old age if he became
the ruler of the Emerald City. So the Witch consented to effect the
transformation, and preparations for the event were at once made.

Glinda ordered her own royal couch to be placed in the center of the
tent. It was piled high with cushions covered with rose-colored silk,
and from a golden railing above hung many folds of pink gossamer,
completely concealing the interior of the couch.

The first act of the Witch was to make the boy drink a potion which
quickly sent him into a deep and dreamless sleep. Then the Tin Woodman
and the Woggle-Bug bore him gently to the couch, placed him upon the
soft cushions, and drew the gossamer hangings to shut him from all
earthly view.

The Witch squatted upon the ground and kindled a tiny fire of dried
herbs, which she drew from her bosom. When the blaze shot up and burned
clearly old Mombi scattered a handful of magical powder over the fire,
which straightway gave off a rich violet vapor, filling all the tent
with its fragrance and forcing the Saw-Horse to sneeze—although he had
been warned to keep quiet.

Then, while the others watched her curiously, the hag chanted a
rhythmical verse in words which no one understood, and bent her lean
body seven times back and forth over the fire. And now the incantation
seemed complete, for the Witch stood upright and cried the one word
“Yeowa!” in a loud voice.

The vapor floated away; the atmosphere became, clear again; a whiff of
fresh air filled the tent, and the pink curtains of the couch trembled
slightly, as if stirred from within.

Glinda walked to the canopy and parted the silken hangings. Then she
bent over the cushions, reached out her hand, and from the couch arose
the form of a young girl, fresh and beautiful as a May morning. Her
eyes sparkled as two diamonds, and her lips were tinted like a
tourmaline. All adown her back floated tresses of ruddy gold, with a
slender jeweled circlet confining them at the brow. Her robes of silken
gauze floated around her like a cloud, and dainty satin slippers shod
her feet.

At this exquisite vision Tip’s old comrades stared in wonder for the
space of a full minute, and then every head bent low in honest
admiration of the lovely Princess Ozma. The girl herself cast one look
into Glinda’s bright face, which glowed with pleasure and satisfaction,
and then turned upon the others. Speaking the words with sweet
diffidence, she said:

“I hope none of you will care less for me than you did before. I’m just
the same Tip, you know; only—only—”

“Only you’re different!” said the Pumpkinhead; and everyone thought it
was the wisest speech he had ever made.

[Illustration: image303]




The Riches of Content


When the wonderful tidings reached the ears of Queen Jinjur—how Mombi
the Witch had been captured; how she had confessed her crime to Glinda;
and how the long-lost Princess Ozma had been discovered in no less a
personage than the boy Tip—she wept real tears of grief and despair.

“To think,” she moaned, “that after having ruled as Queen, and lived in
a palace, I must go back to scrubbing floors and churning butter again!
It is too horrible to think of! I will never consent!”

So when her soldiers, who spent most of their time making fudge in the
palace kitchens, counseled Jinjur to resist, she listened to their
foolish prattle and sent a sharp defiance to Glinda the Good and the
Princess Ozma. The result was a declaration of war, and the very next
day Glinda marched upon the Emerald City with pennants flying and bands
playing, and a forest of shining spears, sparkling brightly beneath the
sun’s rays.

But when it came to the walls this brave assembly made a sudden halt;
for Jinjur had closed and barred every gateway, and the walls of the
Emerald City were builded high and thick with many blocks of green
marble. Finding her advance thus baffled, Glinda bent her brows in deep
thought, while the Woggle-Bug said, in his most positive tone:

“We must lay siege to the city, and starve it into submission. It is
the only thing we can do.”

“Not so,” answered the Scarecrow. “We still have the Gump, and the Gump
can still fly”

The Sorceress turned quickly at this speech, and her face now wore a
bright smile.

“You are right,” she exclaimed, “and certainly have reason to be proud
of your brains. Let us go to the Gump at once!”

So they passed through the ranks of the army until they came to the
place, near the Scarecrow’s tent, where the Gump lay. Glinda and
Princess Ozma mounted first, and sat upon the sofas. Then the Scarecrow
and his friends climbed aboard, and still there was room for a Captain
and three soldiers, which Glinda considered sufficient for a guard.

[Illustration: image305]

Now, at a word from the Princess, the queer Thing they had called the
Gump flopped its palm-leaf wings and rose into the air, carrying the
party of adventurers high above the walls. They hovered over the
palace, and soon perceived Jinjur reclining in a hammock in the
courtyard, where she was comfortably reading a novel with a green cover
and eating green chocolates, confident that the walls would protect her
from her enemies. Obeying a quick command, the Gump alighted safely in
this very courtyard, and before Jinjur had time to do more than scream,
the Captain and three soldiers leaped out and made the former Queen a
prisoner, locking strong chains upon both her wrists.

That act really ended the war; for the Army of Revolt submitted as soon
as they knew Jinjur to be a captive, and the Captain marched in safety
through the streets and up to the gates of the city, which she threw
wide open. Then the bands played their most stirring music while
Glinda’s army marched into the city, and heralds proclaimed the
conquest of the audacious Jinjur and the accession of the beautiful
Princess Ozma to the throne of her royal ancestors.

[Illustration: image306]

At once the men of the Emerald City cast off their aprons. And it is
said that the women were so tired eating of their husbands’ cooking
that they all hailed the conquest of Jinjur with Joy. Certain it is
that, rushing one and all to the kitchens of their houses, the good
wives prepared so delicious a feast for the weary men that harmony was
immediately restored in every family.

Ozma’s first act was to oblige the Army of Revolt to return to her
every emerald or other gem stolen from the public streets and
buildings; and so great was the number of precious stones picked from
their settings by these vain girls, that every one of the royal
jewelers worked steadily for more than a month to replace them in their
settings.

Meanwhile the Army of Revolt was disbanded and the girls sent home to
their mothers. On promise of good behavior Jinjur was likewise
released.

Ozma made the loveliest Queen the Emerald City had ever known; and,
although she was so young and inexperienced, she ruled her people with
wisdom and Justice. For Glinda gave her good advice on all occasions;
and the Woggle-Bug, who was appointed to the important post of Public
Educator, was quite helpful to Ozma when her royal duties grew
perplexing.

The girl, in her gratitude to the Gump for its services, offered the
creature any reward it might name.

“Then,” replied the Gump, “please take me to pieces. I did not wish to
be brought to life, and I am greatly ashamed of my conglomerate
personality. Once I was a monarch of the forest, as my antlers fully
prove; but now, in my present upholstered condition of servitude, I am
compelled to fly through the air—my legs being of no use to me
whatever. Therefore I beg to be dispersed.”

So Ozma ordered the Gump taken apart. The antlered head was again hung
over the mantle-piece in the hall, and the sofas were untied and placed
in the reception parlors. The broom tail resumed its accustomed duties
in the kitchen, and finally, the Scarecrow replaced all the
clotheslines and ropes on the pegs from which he had taken them on the
eventful day when the Thing was constructed.

You might think that was the end of the Gump; and so it was, as a
flying-machine. But the head over the mantle-piece continued to talk
whenever it took a notion to do so, and it frequently startled, with
its abrupt questions, the people who waited in the hall for an audience
with the Queen.

The Saw-Horse, being Ozma’s personal property, was tenderly cared for;
and often she rode the queer creature along the streets of the Emerald
City. She had its wooden legs shod with gold, to keep them from wearing
out, and the tinkle of these golden shoes upon the pavement always
filled the Queen’s subjects with awe as they thought upon this evidence
of her magical powers.

“The Wonderful Wizard was never so wonderful as Queen Ozma,” the people
said to one another, in whispers; “for he claimed to do many things he
could not do; whereas our new Queen does many things no one would ever
expect her to accomplish.”

Jack Pumpkinhead remained with Ozma to the end of his days; and he did
not spoil as soon as he had feared, although he always remained as
stupid as ever. The Woggle-Bug tried to teach him several arts and
sciences; but Jack was so poor a student that any attempt to educate
him was soon abandoned.

After Glinda’s army had marched back home, and peace was restored to
the Emerald City, the Tin Woodman announced his intention to return to
his own Kingdom of the Winkies.

“It isn’t a very big Kingdom,” said he to Ozma, “but for that very
reason it is easier to rule; and I have called myself an Emperor
because I am an Absolute Monarch, and no one interferes in any way with
my conduct of public or personal affairs. When I get home I shall have
a new coat of nickel plate; for I have become somewhat marred and
scratched lately; and then I shall be glad to have you pay me a visit.”

“Thank you,” replied Ozma. “Some day I may accept the invitation. But
what is to become of the Scarecrow?”

“I shall return with my friend the Tin Woodman,” said the stuffed one,
seriously. “We have decided never to be parted in the future.”

[Illustration: image309]

“And I have made the Scarecrow my Royal Treasurer,” explained the Tin
Woodman. “For it has occurred to me that it is a good thing to have a
Royal Treasurer who is made of money. What do you think?”

“I think,” said the little Queen, smiling, “that your friend must be
the richest man in all the world.”

“I am,” returned the Scarecrow. “but not on account of my money. For I
consider brains far superior to money, in every way. You may have
noticed that if one has money without brains, he cannot use it to
advantage; but if one has brains without money, they will enable him to
live comfortably to the end of his days.”

“At the same time,” declared the Tin Woodman, “you must acknowledge
that a good heart is a thing that brains can not create, and that money
can not buy. Perhaps, after all, it is I who am the richest man in all
the world.”

“You are both rich, my friends,” said Ozma, gently; “and your riches
are the only riches worth having—the riches of content!”

[Illustration: image313]

[Illustration: image318]

 The End

PROLOGUE


Through the kindness of Dorothy Gale of Kansas, afterward Princess
Dorothy of Oz, an humble writer in the United States of America was once
appointed Royal Historian of Oz, with the privilege of writing the
chronicle of that wonderful fairyland. But after making six books about
the adventures of those interesting but queer people who live in the
Land of Oz, the Historian learned with sorrow that by an edict of the
Supreme Ruler, Ozma of Oz, her country would thereafter be rendered
invisible to all who lived outside its borders and that all
communication with Oz would, in the future, be cut off.

The children who had learned to look for the books about Oz and who
loved the stories about the gay and happy people inhabiting that favored
country, were as sorry as their Historian that there would be no more
books of Oz stories. They wrote many letters asking if the Historian did
not know of some adventures to write about that had happened before the
Land of Oz was shut out from all the rest of the world. But he did not
know of any. Finally one of the children inquired why we couldn't hear
from Princess Dorothy by wireless telegraph, which would enable her to
communicate to the Historian whatever happened in the far-off Land of Oz
without his seeing her, or even knowing just where Oz is.

That seemed a good idea; so the Historian rigged up a high tower in his
back yard, and took lessons in wireless telegraphy until he understood
it, and then began to call "Princess Dorothy of Oz" by sending messages
into the air.

Now, it wasn't likely that Dorothy would be looking for wireless
messages or would heed the call; but one thing the Historian was sure
of, and that was that the powerful Sorceress, Glinda, would know what he
was doing and that he desired to communicate with Dorothy. For Glinda
has a big book in which is recorded every event that takes place
anywhere in the world, just the moment that it happens, and so of course
the book would tell her about the wireless message.

And that was the way Dorothy heard that the Historian wanted to speak
with her, and there was a Shaggy Man in the Land of Oz who knew how to
telegraph a wireless reply. The result was that the Historian begged so
hard to be told the latest news of Oz, so that he could write it down
for the children to read, that Dorothy asked permission of Ozma and Ozma
graciously consented.

That is why, after two long years of waiting, another Oz story is now
presented to the children of America. This would not have been possible
had not some clever man invented the "wireless" and an equally clever
child suggested the idea of reaching the mysterious Land of Oz by its
means.

                                    L. FRANK BAUM.
    "OZCOT"
  at HOLLYWOOD
  in CALIFORNIA




[Illustration]




LIST OF CHAPTERS


    CHAPTER                                     PAGE

     1--OJO AND UNC NUNKIE                        19

     2--THE CROOKED MAGICIAN                      23

     3--THE PATCHWORK GIRL                        35

     4--THE GLASS CAT                             47

     5--A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT                       55

     6--THE JOURNEY                               67

     7--THE TROUBLESOME PHONOGRAPH                83

     8--THE FOOLISH OWL AND THE WISE DONKEY       91

     9--THEY MEET THE WOOZY                       99

    10--SHAGGY MAN TO THE RESCUE                 115

    11--A GOOD FRIEND                            127

    12--THE GIANT PORCUPINE                      147

    13--SCRAPS AND THE SCARECROW                 159

    14--OJO BREAKS THE LAW                       179

    15--OZMA'S PRISONER                          191

    16--PRINCESS DOROTHY                         203

    17--OZMA AND HER FRIENDS                     215

    18--OJO IS FORGIVEN                          223

    19--TROUBLE WITH THE TOTTENHOTS              235

    20--THE CAPTIVE YOOP                         255

    21--HIPHOPPER THE CHAMPION                   267

    22--THE JOKING HORNERS                       275

    23--PEACE IS DECLARED                        287

    24--OJO FINDS THE DARK WELL                  299

    25--THEY BRIBE THE LAZY QUADLING             303

    26--THE TRICK RIVER                          311

    27--THE TIN WOODMAN OBJECTS                  323

    28--THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ               335




[Illustration]




OJO AND UNK NUNKIE

CHAP. ONE

[Illustration]


"Where's the butter, Unc Nunkie?" asked Ojo.

Unc looked out of the window and stroked his long beard. Then he turned
to the Munchkin boy and shook his head.

"Isn't," said he.

"Isn't any butter? That's too bad, Unc. Where's the jam then?" inquired
Ojo, standing on a stool so he could look through all the shelves of the
cupboard. But Unc Nunkie shook his head again.

"Gone," he said.

"No jam, either? And no cake--no jelly--no apples--nothing but bread?"

"All," said Unc, again stroking his beard as he gazed from the window.

The little boy brought the stool and sat beside his uncle, munching the
dry bread slowly and seeming in deep thought.

"Nothing grows in our yard but the bread tree," he mused, "and there are
only two more loaves on that tree; and they're not ripe yet. Tell me,
Unc; why are we so poor?"

The old Munchkin turned and looked at Ojo. He had kindly eyes, but he
hadn't smiled or laughed in so long that the boy had forgotten that Unc
Nunkie could look any other way than solemn. And Unc never spoke any
more words than he was obliged to, so his little nephew, who lived alone
with him, had learned to understand a great deal from one word.

"Why are we so poor, Unc?" repeated the boy.

"Not," said the old Munchkin.

"I think we are," declared Ojo. "What have we got?"

"House," said Unc Nunkie.

"I know; but everyone in the Land of Oz has a place to live. What else,
Unc?"

"Bread."

"I'm eating the last loaf that's ripe. There; I've put aside your share,
Unc. It's on the table, so you can eat it when you get hungry. But when
that is gone, what shall we eat, Unc?"

The old man shifted in his chair but merely shook his head.

"Of course," said Ojo, who was obliged to talk because his uncle would
not, "no one starves in the Land of Oz, either. There is plenty for
everyone, you know; only, if it isn't just where you happen to be, you
must go where it is."

The aged Munchkin wriggled again and stared at his small nephew as if
disturbed by his argument.

"By to-morrow morning," the boy went on, "we must go where there is
something to eat, or we shall grow very hungry and become very unhappy."

"Where?" asked Unc.

"Where shall we go? I don't know, I'm sure," replied Ojo. "But _you_
must know, Unc. You must have traveled, in your time, because you're so
old. I don't remember it, because ever since I could remember anything
we've lived right here in this lonesome, round house, with a little
garden back of it and the thick woods all around. All I've ever seen of
the great Land of Oz, Unc dear, is the view of that mountain over at the
south, where they say the Hammerheads live--who won't let anybody go by
them--and that mountain at the north, where they say nobody lives."

"One," declared Unc, correcting him.

"Oh, yes; one family lives there, I've heard. That's the Crooked
Magician, who is named Dr. Pipt, and his wife Margolotte. One year you
told me about them; I think it took you a whole year, Unc, to say as
much as I've just said about the Crooked Magician and his wife. They
live high up on the mountain, and the good Munchkin Country, where the
fruits and flowers grow, is just the other side. It's funny you and I
should live here all alone, in the middle of the forest, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Unc.

"Then let's go away and visit the Munchkin Country and its jolly,
good-natured people. I'd love to get a sight of something besides woods,
Unc Nunkie."

"Too little," said Unc.

"Why, I'm not so little as I used to be," answered the boy earnestly. "I
think I can walk as far and as fast through the woods as you can, Unc.
And now that nothing grows in our back yard that is good to eat, we must
go where there is food."

Unc Nunkie made no reply for a time. Then he shut down the window and
turned his chair to face the room, for the sun was sinking behind the
tree-tops and it was growing cool.

By and by Ojo lighted the fire and the logs blazed freely in the broad
fireplace. The two sat in the firelight a long time--the old,
white-bearded Munchkin and the little boy. Both were thinking. When it
grew quite dark outside, Ojo said:

"Eat your bread, Unc, and then we will go to bed."

[Illustration]

But Unc Nunkie did not eat the bread; neither did he go directly to bed.
Long after his little nephew was sound asleep in the corner of the room
the old man sat by the fire, thinking.




THE CROOKED MAGICIAN

CHAP. TWO

[Illustration]


Just at dawn next morning Unc Nunkie laid his hand tenderly on Ojo's
head and awakened him.

"Come," he said.

Ojo dressed. He wore blue silk stockings, blue knee-pants with gold
buckles, a blue ruffled waist and a jacket of bright blue braided with
gold. His shoes were of blue leather and turned up at the toes, which
were pointed. His hat had a peaked crown and a flat brim, and around the
brim was a row of tiny golden bells that tinkled when he moved. This was
the native costume of those who inhabited the Munchkin Country of the
Land of Oz, so Unc Nunkie's dress was much like that of his nephew.
Instead of shoes, the old man wore boots with turnover tops and his
blue coat had wide cuffs of gold braid.

The boy noticed that his uncle had not eaten the bread, and supposed
the old man had not been hungry. Ojo was hungry, though; so he divided
the piece of bread upon the table and ate his half for breakfast,
washing it down with fresh, cool water from the brook. Unc put the other
piece of bread in his jacket pocket, after which he again said, as he
walked out through the doorway: "Come."

Ojo was well pleased. He was dreadfully tired of living all alone in the
woods and wanted to travel and see people. For a long time he had wished
to explore the beautiful Land of Oz in which they lived. When they were
outside, Unc simply latched the door and started up the path. No one
would disturb their little house, even if anyone came so far into the
thick forest while they were gone.

At the foot of the mountain that separated the Country of the Munchkins
from the Country of the Gillikins, the path divided. One way led to the
left and the other to the right--straight up the mountain. Unc Nunkie
took this right-hand path and Ojo followed without asking why. He knew
it would take them to the house of the Crooked Magician, whom he had
never seen but who was their nearest neighbor.

All the morning they trudged up the mountain path and at noon Unc and
Ojo sat on a fallen tree-trunk and ate the last of the bread which the
old Munchkin had placed in his pocket. Then they started on again and
two hours later came in sight of the house of Dr. Pipt.

It was a big house, round, as were all the Munchkin houses, and painted
blue, which is the distinctive color of the Munchkin Country of Oz.
There was a pretty garden around the house, where blue trees and blue
flowers grew in abundance and in one place were beds of blue cabbages,
blue carrots and blue lettuce, all of which were delicious to eat. In
Dr. Pipt's garden grew bun-trees, cake-trees, cream-puff bushes, blue
buttercups which yielded excellent blue butter and a row of
chocolate-caramel plants. Paths of blue gravel divided the vegetable and
flower beds and a wider path led up to the front door. The place was in
a clearing on the mountain, but a little way off was the grim forest,
which completely surrounded it.

Unc knocked at the door of the house and a chubby, pleasant-faced woman,
dressed all in blue, opened it and greeted the visitors with a smile.

"Ah," said Ojo; "you must be Dame Margolotte, the good wife of Dr.
Pipt."

"I am, my dear, and all strangers are welcome to my home."

"May we see the famous Magician, Madam?"

"He is very busy just now," she said, shaking her head doubtfully. "But
come in and let me give you something to eat, for you must have traveled
far in order to get to our lonely place."

"We have," replied Ojo, as he and Unc entered the house. "We have come
from a far lonelier place than this."

"A lonelier place! And in the Munchkin Country?" she exclaimed. "Then it
must be somewhere in the Blue Forest."

"It is, good Dame Margolotte."

"Dear me!" she said, looking at the man, "you must be Unc Nunkie, known
as the Silent One." Then she looked at the boy. "And you must be Ojo the
Unlucky," she added.

"Yes," said Unc.

"I never knew I was called the Unlucky," said Ojo, soberly; "but it is
really a good name for me."

"Well," remarked the woman, as she bustled around the room and set the
table and brought food from the cupboard, "you were unlucky to live all
alone in that dismal forest, which is much worse than the forest around
here; but perhaps your luck will change, now you are away from it. If,
during your travels, you can manage to lose that 'Un' at the beginning
of your name 'Unlucky,' you will then become Ojo the Lucky, which will
be a great improvement."

"How can I lose that 'Un,' Dame Margolotte?"

"I do not know how, but you must keep the matter in mind and perhaps the
chance will come to you," she replied.

Ojo had never eaten such a fine meal in all his life. There was a savory
stew, smoking hot, a dish of blue peas, a bowl of sweet milk of a
delicate blue tint and a blue pudding with blue plums in it. When the
visitors had eaten heartily of this fare the woman said to them:

"Do you wish to see Dr. Pipt on business or for pleasure?"

Unc shook his head.

"We are traveling," replied Ojo, "and we stopped at your house just to
rest and refresh ourselves. I do not think Unc Nunkie cares very much to
see the famous Crooked Magician; but for my part I am curious to look at
such a great man."

The woman seemed thoughtful.

"I remember that Unc Nunkie and my husband used to be friends, many
years ago," she said, "so perhaps they will be glad to meet again. The
Magician is very busy, as I said, but if you will promise not to disturb
him you may come into his workshop and watch him prepare a wonderful
charm."

"Thank you," replied the boy, much pleased. "I would like to do that."

She led the way to a great domed hall at the back of the house, which
was the Magician's workshop. There was a row of windows extending nearly
around the sides of the circular room, which rendered the place very
light, and there was a back door in addition to the one leading to the
front part of the house. Before the row of windows a broad seat was
built and there were some chairs and benches in the room besides. At one
end stood a great fireplace, in which a blue log was blazing with a blue
flame, and over the fire hung four kettles in a row, all bubbling and
steaming at a great rate. The Magician was stirring all four of these
kettles at the same time, two with his hands and two with his feet, to
the latter, wooden ladles being strapped, for this man was so very
crooked that his legs were as handy as his arms.

Unc Nunkie came forward to greet his old friend, but not being able to
shake either his hands or his feet, which were all occupied in stirring,
he patted the Magician's bald head and asked: "What?"

"Ah, it's the Silent One," remarked Dr. Pipt, without looking up, "and
he wants to know what I'm making. Well, when it is quite finished this
compound will be the wonderful Powder of Life, which no one knows how to
make but myself. Whenever it is sprinkled on anything, that thing will
at once come to life, no matter what it is. It takes me several years to
make this magic Powder, but at this moment I am pleased to say it is
nearly done. You see, I am making it for my good wife Margolotte, who
wants to use some of it for a purpose of her own. Sit down and make
yourself comfortable, Unc Nunkie, and after I've finished my task I will
talk to you."

"You must know," said Margolotte, when they were all seated together on
the broad window-seat, "that my husband foolishly gave away all the
Powder of Life he first made to old Mombi the Witch, who used to live in
the Country of the Gillikins, to the north of here. Mombi gave to Dr.
Pipt a Powder of Perpetual Youth in exchange for his Powder of Life, but
she cheated him wickedly, for the Powder of Youth was no good and could
work no magic at all."

"Perhaps the Powder of Life couldn't either," said Ojo.

[Illustration]

"Yes; it is perfection," she declared. "The first lot we tested on our
Glass Cat, which not only began to live but has lived ever since. She's
somewhere around the house now."

"A Glass Cat!" exclaimed Ojo, astonished.

"Yes; she makes a very pleasant companion, but admires herself a little
more than is considered modest, and she positively refuses to catch
mice," explained Margolotte. "My husband made the cat some pink brains,
but they proved to be too high-bred and particular for a cat, so she
thinks it is undignified in her to catch mice. Also she has a pretty
blood-red heart, but it is made of stone--a ruby, I think--and so is
rather hard and unfeeling. I think the next Glass Cat the Magician makes
will have neither brains nor heart, for then it will not object to
catching mice and may prove of some use to us."

"What did old Mombi the Witch do with the Powder of Life your husband
gave her?" asked the boy.

"She brought Jack Pumpkinhead to life, for one thing," was the reply. "I
suppose you've heard of Jack Pumpkinhead. He is now living near the
Emerald City and is a great favorite with the Princess Ozma, who rules
all the Land of Oz."

"No; I've never heard of him," remarked Ojo. "I'm afraid I don't know
much about the Land of Oz. You see, I've lived all my life with Unc
Nunkie, the Silent One, and there was no one to tell me anything."

"That is one reason you are Ojo the Unlucky," said the woman, in a
sympathetic tone. "The more one knows, the luckier he is, for knowledge
is the greatest gift in life."

"But tell me, please, what you intend to do with this new lot of the
Powder of Life, which Dr. Pipt is making. He said his wife wanted it for
some especial purpose."

"So I do," she answered. "I want it to bring my Patchwork Girl to life."

"Oh! A Patchwork Girl? What is that?" Ojo asked, for this seemed even
more strange and unusual than a Glass Cat.

"I think I must show you my Patchwork Girl," said Margolotte, laughing
at the boy's astonishment, "for she is rather difficult to explain. But
first I will tell you that for many years I have longed for a servant to
help me with the housework and to cook the meals and wash the dishes. No
servant will come here because the place is so lonely and
out-of-the-way, so my clever husband, the Crooked Magician, proposed
that I make a girl out of some sort of material and he would make her
live by sprinkling over her the Powder of Life. This seemed an excellent
suggestion and at once Dr. Pipt set to work to make a new batch of his
magic powder. He has been at it a long, long while, and so I have had
plenty of time to make the girl. Yet that task was not so easy as you
may suppose. At first I couldn't think what to make her of, but finally
in searching through a chest I came across an old patchwork quilt, which
my grandmother once made when she was young."

"What is a patchwork quilt?" asked Ojo.

"A bed-quilt made of patches of different kinds and colors of cloth, all
neatly sewed together. The patches are of all shapes and sizes, so a
patchwork quilt is a very pretty and gorgeous thing to look at.
Sometimes it is called a 'crazy-quilt,' because the patches and colors
are so mixed up. We never have used my grandmother's many-colored
patchwork quilt, handsome as it is, for we Munchkins do not care for any
color other than blue, so it has been packed away in the chest for about
a hundred years. When I found it, I said to myself that it would do
nicely for my servant girl, for when she was brought to life she would
not be proud nor haughty, as the Glass Cat is, for such a dreadful
mixture of colors would discourage her from trying to be as dignified as
the blue Munchkins are."

"Is blue the only respectable color, then?" inquired Ojo.

"Yes, for a Munchkin. All our country is blue, you know. But in other
parts of Oz the people favor different colors. At the Emerald City,
where our Princess Ozma lives, green is the popular color. But all
Munchkins prefer blue to anything else and when my housework girl is
brought to life she will find herself to be of so many unpopular colors
that she'll never dare be rebellious or impudent, as servants are
sometimes liable to be when they are made the same way their mistresses
are."

Unc Nunkie nodded approval.

"Good i-dea," he said; and that was a long speech for Unc Nunkie because
it was two words.

"So I cut up the quilt," continued Margolotte, "and made from it a very
well-shaped girl, which I stuffed with cotton-wadding. I will show you
what a good job I did," and she went to a tall cupboard and threw open
the doors.

Then back she came, lugging in her arms the Patchwork Girl, which she
set upon the bench and propped up so that the figure would not tumble
over.

[Illustration]




[Illustration: Ojo]




THE PATCHWORK GIRL

CHAP. THREE

[Illustration]


Ojo examined this curious contrivance with wonder. The Patchwork Girl
was taller than he, when she stood upright, and her body was plump and
rounded because it had been so neatly stuffed with cotton. Margolotte
had first made the girl's form from the patchwork quilt and then she had
dressed it with a patchwork skirt and an apron with pockets in it--using
the same gay material throughout. Upon the feet she had sewn a pair of
red leather shoes with pointed toes. All the fingers and thumbs of the
girl's hands had been carefully formed and stuffed and stitched at the
edges, with gold plates at the ends to serve as finger-nails.

"She will have to work, when she comes to life," said Margolotte.

The head of the Patchwork Girl was the most curious part of her. While
she waited for her husband to finish making his Powder of Life the woman
had found ample time to complete the head as her fancy dictated, and she
realized that a good servant's head must be properly constructed. The
hair was of brown yarn and hung down on her neck in several neat braids.
Her eyes were two silver suspender-buttons cut from a pair of the
Magician's old trousers, and they were sewed on with black threads,
which formed the pupils of the eyes. Margolotte had puzzled over the
ears for some time, for these were important if the servant was to hear
distinctly, but finally she had made them out of thin plates of gold and
attached them in place by means of stitches through tiny holes bored in
the metal. Gold is the most common metal in the Land of Oz and is used
for many purposes because it is soft and pliable.

The woman had cut a slit for the Patchwork Girl's mouth and sewn two
rows of white pearls in it for teeth, using a strip of scarlet plush for
a tongue. This mouth Ojo considered very artistic and lifelike, and
Margolotte was pleased when the boy praised it. There were almost too
many patches on the face of the girl for her to be considered strictly
beautiful, for one cheek was yellow and the other red, her chin blue,
her forehead purple and the center, where her nose had been formed and
padded, a bright yellow.

"You ought to have had her face all pink," suggested the boy.

"I suppose so; but I had no pink cloth," replied the woman. "Still, I
cannot see as it matters much, for I wish my Patchwork Girl to be useful
rather than ornamental. If I get tired looking at her patched face I can
whitewash it."

"Has she any brains?" asked Ojo.

"No; I forgot all about the brains!" exclaimed the woman. "I am glad you
reminded me of them, for it is not too late to supply them, by any
means. Until she is brought to life I can do anything I please with this
girl. But I must be careful not to give her too much brains, and those
she has must be such as are fitted to the station she is to occupy in
life. In other words, her brains mustn't be very good."

"Wrong," said Unc Nunkie.

"No; I am sure I am right about that," returned the woman.

"He means," explained Ojo, "that unless your servant has good brains she
won't know how to obey you properly, nor do the things you ask her to
do."

"Well, that maybe true," agreed Margolotte; "but, on the contrary, a
servant with too much brains is sure to become independent and
high-and-mighty and feel above her work. This is a very delicate task,
as I said, and I must take care to give the girl just the right quantity
of the right sort of brains. I want her to know just enough, but not too
much."

With this she went to another cupboard which was filled with shelves.
All the shelves were lined with blue glass bottles, neatly labeled by
the Magician to show what they contained. One whole shelf was marked:
"Brain Furniture," and the bottles on this shelf were labeled as
follows: "Obedience," "Cleverness," "Judgment," "Courage," "Ingenuity,"
"Amiability," "Learning," "Truth," "Poesy," "Self Reliance."

"Let me see," said Margolotte; "of those qualities she must have
'Obedience' first of all," and she took down the bottle bearing that
label and poured from it upon a dish several grains of the contents.
"'Amiability' is also good and 'Truth.'" She poured into the dish a
quantity from each of these bottles. "I think that will do," she
continued, "for the other qualities are not needed in a servant."

Unc Nunkie, who with Ojo stood beside her, touched the bottle marked
"Cleverness."

"Little," said he.

"A little 'Cleverness'? Well, perhaps you are right, sir," said she, and
was about to take down the bottle when the Crooked Magician suddenly
called to her excitedly from the fireplace.

"Quick, Margolotte! Come and help me."

She ran to her husband's side at once and helped him lift the four
kettles from the fire. Their contents had all boiled away, leaving in
the bottom of each kettle a few grains of fine white powder. Very
carefully the Magician removed this powder, placing it all together in a
golden dish, where he mixed it with a golden spoon. When the mixture was
complete there was scarcely a handful, all told.

[Illustration]

"That," said Dr. Pipt, in a pleased and triumphant tone, "is the
wonderful Powder of Life, which I alone in the world know how to make.
It has taken me nearly six years to prepare these precious grains of
dust, but the little heap on that dish is worth the price of a kingdom
and many a king would give all he has to possess it. When it has become
cooled I will place it in a small bottle; but meantime I must watch it
carefully, lest a gust of wind blow it away or scatter it."

Unc Nunkie, Margolotte and the Magician all stood looking at the
marvelous Powder, but Ojo was more interested just then in the Patchwork
Girl's brains. Thinking it both unfair and unkind to deprive her of any
good qualities that were handy, the boy took down every bottle on the
shelf and poured some of the contents in Margolotte's dish. No one saw
him do this, for all were looking at the Powder of Life; but soon the
woman remembered what she had been doing, and came back to the cupboard.

"Let's see," she remarked; "I was about to give my girl a little
'Cleverness,' which is the Doctor's substitute for 'Intelligence'--a
quality he has not yet learned how to manufacture." Taking down the
bottle of "Cleverness" she added some of the powder to the heap on the
dish. Ojo became a bit uneasy at this, for he had already put quite a
lot of the "Cleverness" powder in the dish; but he dared not interfere
and so he comforted himself with the thought that one cannot have too
much cleverness.

Margolotte now carried the dish of brains to the bench. Ripping the seam
of the patch on the girl's forehead, she placed the powder within the
head and then sewed up the seam as neatly and securely as before.

"My girl is all ready for your Powder of Life, my dear," she said to her
husband. But the Magician replied:

"This powder must not be used before to-morrow morning; but I think it
is now cool enough to be bottled."

He selected a small gold bottle with a pepper-box top, so that the
powder might be sprinkled on any object through the small holes. Very
carefully he placed the Powder of Life in the gold bottle and then
locked it up in a drawer of his cabinet.

"At last," said he, rubbing his hands together gleefully, "I have ample
leisure for a good talk with my old friend Unc Nunkie. So let us sit
down cosily and enjoy ourselves. After stirring those four kettles for
six years I am glad to have a little rest."

"You will have to do most of the talking," said Ojo, "for Unc is called
the Silent One and uses few words."

"I know; but that renders your uncle a most agreeable companion and
gossip," declared Dr. Pipt. "Most people talk too much, so it is a
relief to find one who talks too little."

Ojo looked at the Magician with much awe and curiosity.

"Don't you find it very annoying to be so crooked?" he asked.

"No; I am quite proud of my person," was the reply. "I suppose I am the
only Crooked Magician in all the world. Some others are accused of being
crooked, but I am the only genuine."

He was really very crooked and Ojo wondered how he managed to do so many
things with such a twisted body. When he sat down upon a crooked chair
that had been made to fit him, one knee was under his chin and the other
near the small of his back; but he was a cheerful man and his face bore
a pleasant and agreeable expression.

"I am not allowed to perform magic, except for my own amusement," he
told his visitors, as he lighted a pipe with a crooked stem and began to
smoke. "Too many people were working magic in the Land of Oz, and so our
lovely Princess Ozma put a stop to it. I think she was quite right.
There were several wicked Witches who caused a lot of trouble; but now
they are all out of business and only the great Sorceress, Glinda the
Good, is permitted to practice her arts, which never harm anybody. The
Wizard of Oz, who used to be a humbug and knew no magic at all, has been
taking lessons of Glinda, and I'm told he is getting to be a pretty good
Wizard; but he is merely the assistant of the great Sorceress. I've the
right to make a servant girl for my wife, you know, or a Glass Cat to
catch our mice--which she refuses to do--but I am forbidden to work
magic for others, or to use it as a profession."

"Magic must be a very interesting study," said Ojo.

"It truly is," asserted the Magician. "In my time I've performed some
magical feats that were worthy the skill of Glinda the Good. For
instance, there's the Powder of Life, and my Liquid of Petrifaction,
which is contained in that bottle on the shelf yonder--over the window."

"What does the Liquid of Petrifaction do?" inquired the boy.

"Turns everything it touches to solid marble. It's an invention of my
own, and I find it very useful. Once two of those dreadful Kalidahs,
with bodies like bears and heads like tigers, came here from the forest
to attack us; but I sprinkled some of that Liquid on them and instantly
they turned to marble. I now use them as ornamental statuary in my
garden. This table looks to you like wood, and once it really was wood;
but I sprinkled a few drops of the Liquid of Petrifaction on it and now
it is marble. It will never break nor wear out."

"Fine!" said Unc Nunkie, wagging his head and stroking his long gray
beard.

"Dear me; what a chatterbox you're getting to be, Unc," remarked the
Magician, who was pleased with the compliment. But just then there came
a scratching at the back door and a shrill voice cried:

"Let me in! Hurry up, can't you? Let me in!"

Margolotte got up and went to the door.

"Ask like a good cat, then," she said.

[Illustration]

"Mee-ee-ow-w-w! There; does that suit your royal highness?" asked the
voice, in scornful accents.

"Yes; that's proper cat talk," declared the woman, and opened the door.

At once a cat entered, came to the center of the room and stopped short
at the sight of strangers. Ojo and Unc Nunkie both stared at it with
wide open eyes, for surely no such curious creature had ever existed
before--even in the Land of Oz.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




THE GLASS CAT

CHAP. 4

[Illustration]


The cat was made of glass, so clear and transparent that you could see
through it as easily as through a window. In the top of its head,
however, was a mass of delicate pink balls which looked like jewels, and
it had a heart made of a blood-red ruby. The eyes were two large
emeralds, but aside from these colors all the rest of the animal was
clear glass, and it had a spun-glass tail that was really beautiful.

"Well, Doc Pipt, do you mean to introduce us, or not?" demanded the cat,
in a tone of annoyance. "Seems to me you are forgetting your manners."

"Excuse me," returned the Magician. "This is Unc Nunkie, the descendant
of the former kings of the Munchkins, before this country became a part
of the Land of Oz."

"He needs a hair-cut," observed the cat, washing its face.

"True," replied Unc, with a low chuckle of amusement.

"But he has lived alone in the heart of the forest for many years," the
Magician explained; "and, although that is a barbarous country, there
are no barbers there."

"Who is the dwarf?" asked the cat.

"That is not a dwarf, but a boy," answered the Magician. "You have never
seen a boy before. He is now small because he is young. With more years
he will grow big and become as tall as Unc Nunkie."

"Oh. Is that magic?" the glass animal inquired.

"Yes; but it is Nature's magic, which is more wonderful than any art
known to man. For instance, my magic made you, and made you live; and it
was a poor job because you are useless and a bother to me; but I can't
make you grow. You will always be the same size--and the same saucy,
inconsiderate Glass Cat, with pink brains and a hard ruby heart."

"No one can regret more than I the fact that you made me," asserted the
cat, crouching upon the floor and slowly swaying its spun-glass tail
from side to side. "Your world is a very uninteresting place. I've
wandered through your gardens and in the forest until I'm tired of it
all, and when I come into the house the conversation of your fat wife
and of yourself bores me dreadfully."

"That is because I gave you different brains from those we ourselves
possess--and much too good for a cat," returned Dr. Pipt.

"Can't you take 'em out, then, and replace 'em with pebbles, so that I
won't feel above my station in life?" asked the cat, pleadingly.

"Perhaps so. I'll try it, after I've brought the Patchwork Girl to
life," he said.

The cat walked up to the bench on which the Patchwork Girl reclined and
looked at her attentively.

"Are you going to make that dreadful thing live?" she asked.

The Magician nodded.

"It is intended to be my wife's servant maid," he said. "When she is
alive she will do all our work and mind the house. But you are not to
order her around, Bungle, as you do us. You must treat the Patchwork
Girl respectfully."

"I won't. I couldn't respect such a bundle of scraps under any
circumstances."

"If you don't, there will be more scraps than you will like," cried
Margolotte, angrily.

"Why didn't you make her pretty to look at?" asked the cat. "You made me
pretty--very pretty, indeed--and I love to watch my pink brains roll
around when they're working, and to see my precious red heart beat." She
went to a long mirror, as she said this, and stood before it, looking
at herself with an air of much pride. "But that poor patched thing will
hate herself, when she's once alive," continued the cat. "If I were you
I'd use her for a mop, and make another servant that is prettier."

"You have a perverted taste," snapped Margolotte, much annoyed at this
frank criticism. "I think the Patchwork Girl is beautiful, considering
what she's made of. Even the rainbow hasn't as many colors, and you must
admit that the rainbow is a pretty thing."

The Glass Cat yawned and stretched herself upon the floor.

"Have your own way," she said. "I'm sorry for the Patchwork Girl, that's
all."

Ojo and Unc Nunkie slept that night in the Magician's house, and the boy
was glad to stay because he was anxious to see the Patchwork Girl
brought to life. The Glass Cat was also a wonderful creature to little
Ojo, who had never seen or known anything of magic before, although he
had lived in the Fairyland of Oz ever since he was born. Back there in
the woods nothing unusual ever happened. Unc Nunkie, who might have been
King of the Munchkins, had not his people united with all the other
countries of Oz in acknowledging Ozma as their sole ruler, had retired
into this forgotten forest nook with his baby nephew and they had lived
all alone there. Only that the neglected garden had failed to grow food
for them, they would always have lived in the solitary Blue Forest; but
now they had started out to mingle with other people, and the first
place they came to proved so interesting that Ojo could scarcely sleep a
wink all night.

Margolotte was an excellent cook and gave them a fine breakfast. While
they were all engaged in eating, the good woman said:

"This is the last meal I shall have to cook for some time, for right
after breakfast Dr. Pipt has promised to bring my new servant to life. I
shall let her wash the breakfast dishes and sweep and dust the house.
What a relief it will be!"

"It will, indeed, relieve you of much drudgery," said the Magician. "By
the way, Margolotte, I thought I saw you getting some brains from the
cupboard, while I was busy with my kettles. What qualities have you
given your new servant?"

"Only those that an humble servant requires," she answered. "I do not
wish her to feel above her station, as the Glass Cat does. That would
make her discontented and unhappy, for of course she must always be a
servant."

Ojo was somewhat disturbed as he listened to this, and the boy began to
fear he had done wrong in adding all those different qualities of brains
to the lot Margolotte had prepared for the servant. But it was too late
now for regret, since all the brains were securely sewn up inside the
Patchwork Girl's head. He might have confessed what he had done and thus
allowed Margolotte and her husband to change the brains; but he was
afraid of incurring their anger. He believed that Unc had seen him add
to the brains, and Unc had not said a word against it; but then, Unc
never did say anything unless it was absolutely necessary.

As soon as breakfast was over they all went into the Magician's big
workshop, where the Glass Cat was lying before the mirror and the
Patchwork Girl lay limp and lifeless upon the bench.

"Now, then," said Dr. Pipt, in a brisk tone, "we shall perform one of
the greatest feats of magic possible to man, even in this marvelous Land
of Oz. In no other country could it be done at all. I think we ought to
have a little music while the Patchwork Girl comes to life. It is
pleasant to reflect that the first sounds her golden ears will hear will
be delicious music."

As he spoke he went to a phonograph, which was screwed fast to a small
table, and wound up the spring of the instrument and adjusted the big
gold horn.

"The music my servant will usually hear," remarked Margolotte, "will be
my orders to do her work. But I see no harm in allowing her to listen to
this unseen band while she wakens to her first realization of life. My
orders will beat the band, afterward."

The phonograph was now playing a stirring march tune and the Magician
unlocked his cabinet and took out the gold bottle containing the Powder
of Life.

They all bent over the bench on which the Patchwork Girl reclined. Unc
Nunkie and Margolotte stood behind, near the windows, Ojo at one side
and the Magician in front, where he would have freedom to sprinkle the
powder. The Glass Cat came near, too, curious to watch the important
scene.

"All ready?" asked Dr. Pipt.

"All is ready," answered his wife.

So the Magician leaned over and shook from the bottle some grains of the
wonderful Powder, and they fell directly on the Patchwork Girl's head
and arms.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT

CHAP. 5

[Illustration]


"It will take a few minutes for this powder to do its work," remarked
the Magician, sprinkling the body up and down with much care.

But suddenly the Patchwork Girl threw up one arm, which knocked the
bottle of powder from the crooked man's hand and sent it flying across
the room. Unc Nunkie and Margolotte were so startled that they both
leaped backward and bumped together, and Unc's head joggled the shelf
above them and upset the bottle containing the Liquid of Petrifaction.

The Magician uttered such a wild cry that Ojo jumped away and the
Patchwork Girl sprang after him and clasped her stuffed arms around him
in terror. The Glass Cat snarled and hid under the table, and so it was
that when the powerful Liquid of Petrifaction was spilled it fell only
upon the wife of the Magician and the uncle of Ojo. With these two the
charm worked promptly. They stood motionless and stiff as marble
statues, in exactly the positions they were in when the Liquid struck
them.

Ojo pushed the Patchwork Girl away and ran to Unc Nunkie, filled with a
terrible fear for the only friend and protector he had ever known. When
he grasped Unc's hand it was cold and hard. Even the long gray beard was
solid marble. The Crooked Magician was dancing around the room in a
frenzy of despair, calling upon his wife to forgive him, to speak to
him, to come to life again!

The Patchwork Girl, quickly recovering from her fright, now came nearer
and looked from one to another of the people with deep interest. Then
she looked at herself and laughed. Noticing the mirror, she stood before
it and examined her extraordinary features with amazement--her button
eyes, pearl bead teeth and puffy nose. Then, addressing her reflection
in the glass, she exclaimed:

    "Whee, but there's a gaudy dame!
    Makes a paint-box blush with shame.
    Razzle-dazzle, fizzle-fazzle!
    Howdy-do, Miss What's-your-name?"

She bowed, and the reflection bowed. Then she laughed again, long and
merrily, and the Glass Cat crept out from under the table and said:

"I don't blame you for laughing at yourself. Aren't you horrid?"

"Horrid?" she replied. "Why, I'm thoroughly delightful. I'm an Original,
if you please, and therefore incomparable. Of all the comic, absurd,
rare and amusing creatures the world contains, I must be the supreme
freak. Who but poor Margolotte could have managed to invent such an
unreasonable being as I? But I'm glad--I'm awfully glad!--that I'm just
what I am, and nothing else."

"Be quiet, will you?" cried the frantic Magician; "be quiet and let me
think! If I don't think I shall go mad."

"Think ahead," said the Patchwork Girl, seating herself in a chair.
"Think all you want to. I don't mind."

"Gee! but I'm tired playing that tune," called the phonograph, speaking
through its horn in a brazen, scratchy voice. "If you don't mind, Pipt,
old boy, I'll cut it out and take a rest."

The Magician looked gloomily at the music-machine.

"What dreadful luck!" he wailed, despondently. "The Powder of Life must
have fallen on the phonograph."

He went up to it and found that the gold bottle that contained the
precious powder had dropped upon the stand and scattered its life-giving
grains over the machine. The phonograph was very much alive, and began
dancing a jig with the legs of the table to which it was attached, and
this dance so annoyed Dr. Pipt that he kicked the thing into a corner
and pushed a bench against it, to hold it quiet.

"You were bad enough before," said the Magician, resentfully; "but a
live phonograph is enough to drive every sane person in the Land of Oz
stark crazy."

[Illustration]

"No insults, please," answered the phonograph in a surly tone. "You did
it, my boy; don't blame me."

"You've bungled everything, Dr. Pipt," added the Glass Cat,
contemptuously.

"Except me," said the Patchwork Girl, jumping up to whirl merrily around
the room.

"I think," said Ojo, almost ready to cry through grief over Unc Nunkie's
sad fate, "it must all be my fault, in some way. I'm called Ojo the
Unlucky, you know."

"That's nonsense, kiddie," retorted the Patchwork Girl cheerfully. "No
one can be unlucky who has the intelligence to direct his own actions.
The unlucky ones are those who beg for a chance to think, like poor Dr.
Pipt here. What's the row about, anyway, Mr. Magic-maker?"

"The Liquid of Petrifaction has accidentally fallen upon my dear wife
and Unc Nunkie and turned them into marble," he sadly replied.

"Well, why don't you sprinkle some of that powder on them and bring them
to life again?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

The Magician gave a jump.

"Why, I hadn't thought of that!" he joyfully cried, and grabbed up the
golden bottle, with which he ran to Margolotte.

Said the Patchwork Girl:

    "Higgledy, piggledy, dee--
    What fools magicians be!
    His head's so thick
    He can't think quick,
    So he takes advice from me."

Standing upon the bench, for he was so crooked he could not reach the
top of his wife's head in any other way, Dr. Pipt began shaking the
bottle. But not a grain of powder came out. He pulled off the cover,
glanced within, and then threw the bottle from him with a wail of
despair.

"Gone--gone! Every bit gone," he cried. "Wasted on that miserable
phonograph when it might have saved my dear wife!"

Then the Magician bowed his head on his crooked arms and began to cry.

Ojo was sorry for him. He went up to the sorrowful man and said softly:

"You can make more Powder of Life, Dr. Pipt."

"Yes; but it will take me six years--six long, weary years of stirring
four kettles with both feet and both hands," was the agonized reply.
"Six years! while poor Margolotte stands watching me as a marble image."

"Can't anything else be done?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

The Magician shook his head. Then he seemed to remember something and
looked up.

"There is one other compound that would destroy the magic spell of the
Liquid of Petrifaction and restore my wife and Unc Nunkie to life," said
he. "It may be hard to find the things I need to make this magic
compound, but if they were found I could do in an instant what will
otherwise take six long, weary years of stirring kettles with both hands
and both feet."

"All right; let's find the things, then," suggested the Patchwork Girl.
"That seems a lot more sensible than those stirring times with the
kettles."

"That's the idea, Scraps," said the Glass Cat, approvingly. "I'm glad to
find you have decent brains. Mine are exceptionally good. You can see
'em work; they're pink."

"Scraps?" repeated the girl. "Did you call me 'Scraps'? Is that my
name?"

"I--I believe my poor wife had intended to name you 'Angeline,'" said
the Magician.

"But I like 'Scraps' best," she replied with a laugh. "It fits me
better, for my patchwork is all scraps, and nothing else. Thank you for
naming me, Miss Cat. Have you any name of your own?"

"I have a foolish name that Margolotte once gave me, but which is quite
undignified for one of my importance," answered the cat. "She called me
'Bungle.'"

"Yes," sighed the Magician; "you were a sad bungle, taken all in all. I
was wrong to make you as I did, for a more useless, conceited and
brittle thing never before existed."

"I'm not so brittle as you think," retorted the cat. "I've been alive a
good many years, for Dr. Pipt experimented on me with the first magic
Powder of Life he ever made, and so far I've never broken or cracked or
chipped any part of me."

"You seem to have a chip on your shoulder," laughed the Patchwork Girl,
and the cat went to the mirror to see.

"Tell me," pleaded Ojo, speaking to the Crooked Magician, "what must we
find to make the compound that will save Unc Nunkie?"

"First," was the reply, "I must have a six-leaved clover. That can only
be found in the green country around the Emerald City, and six-leaved
clovers are very scarce, even there."

"I'll find it for you," promised Ojo.

"The next thing," continued the Magician, "is the left wing of a yellow
butterfly. That color can only be found in the yellow country of the
Winkies, West of the Emerald City."

"I'll find it," declared Ojo. "Is that all?"

"Oh, no; I'll get my Book of Recipes and see what comes next."

Saying this, the Magician unlocked a drawer of his cabinet and drew out
a small book covered with blue leather. Looking through the pages he
found the recipe he wanted and said: "I must have a gill of water from a
dark well."

"What kind of a well is that, sir?" asked the boy.

"One where the light of day never penetrates. The water must be put in a
gold bottle and brought to me without any light ever reaching it."

"I'll get the water from the dark well," said Ojo.

"Then I must have three hairs from the tip of a Woozy's tail, and a drop
of oil from a live man's body."

Ojo looked grave at this.

"What is a Woozy, please?" he inquired.

"Some sort of an animal. I've never seen one, so I can't describe it,"
replied the Magician.

"If I can find a Woozy, I'll get the hairs from its tail," said Ojo.
"But is there ever any oil in a man's body?"

The Magician looked in the book again, to make sure.

"That's what the recipe calls for," he replied, "and of course we must
get everything that is called for, or the charm won't work. The book
doesn't say 'blood'; it says 'oil,' and there must be oil somewhere in a
live man's body or the book wouldn't ask for it."

"All right," returned Ojo, trying not to feel discouraged; "I'll try to
find it."

The Magician looked at the little Munchkin boy in a doubtful way and
said:

"All this will mean a long journey for you; perhaps several long
journeys; for you must search through several of the different countries
of Oz in order to get the things I need."

"I know it, sir; but I must do my best to save Unc Nunkie."

"And also my poor wife Margolotte. If you save one you will save the
other, for both stand there together and the same compound will restore
them both to life. Do the best you can, Ojo, and while you are gone I
shall begin the six years' job of making a new batch of the Powder of
Life. Then, if you should unluckily fail to secure any one of the things
needed, I will have lost no time. But if you succeed you must return
here as quickly as you can, and that will save me much tiresome stirring
of four kettles with both feet and both hands."

"I will start on my journey at once, sir," said the boy.

"And I will go with you," declared the Patchwork Girl.

"No, no!" exclaimed the Magician. "You have no right to leave this
house. You are only a servant and have not been discharged."

Scraps, who had been dancing up and down the room, stopped and looked at
him.

"What is a servant?" she asked.

"One who serves. A--a sort of slave," he explained.

"Very well," said the Patchwork Girl, "I'm going to serve you and your
wife by helping Ojo find the things you need. You need a lot, you know,
such as are not easily found."

"It is true," sighed Dr. Pipt. "I am well aware that Ojo has undertaken
a serious task."

Scraps laughed, and resuming her dance she said:

    "Here's a job for a boy of brains:
    A drop of oil from a live man's veins;
    A six-leaved clover; three nice hairs
    From a Woozy's tail, the book declares
    Are needed for the magic spell,
    And water from a pitch-dark well.
    The yellow wing of a butterfly
    To find must Ojo also try,
    And if he gets them without harm,
    Doc Pipt will make the magic charm;
    But if he doesn't get 'em, Unc
    Will always stand a marble chunk."

The Magician looked at her thoughtfully.

"Poor Margolotte must have given you some of the quality of poesy, by
mistake," he said. "And, if that is true, I didn't make a very good
article when I prepared it, or else you got an overdose or an underdose.
However, I believe I shall let you go with Ojo, for my poor wife will
not need your services until she is restored to life. Also I think you
may be able to help the boy, for your head seems to contain some
thoughts I did not expect to find in it. But be very careful of
yourself, for you're a souvenir of my dear Margolotte. Try not to get
ripped, or your stuffing may fall out. One of your eyes seems loose, and
you may have to sew it on tighter. If you talk too much you'll wear out
your scarlet plush tongue, which ought to have been hemmed on the edges.
And remember you belong to me and must return here as soon as your
mission is accomplished."

"I'm going with Scraps and Ojo," announced the Glass Cat.

"You can't," said the Magician.

"Why not?"

"You'd get broken in no time, and you couldn't be a bit of use to the
boy and the Patchwork Girl."

"I beg to differ with you," returned the cat, in a haughty tone. "Three
heads are better than two, and my pink brains are beautiful. You can see
'em work."

"Well, go along," said the Magician, irritably. "You're only an
annoyance, anyhow, and I'm glad to get rid of you."

"Thank you for nothing, then," answered the cat, stiffly.

Dr. Pipt took a small basket from a cupboard and packed several things
in it. Then he handed it to Ojo.

"Here is some food and a bundle of charms," he said. "It is all I can
give you, but I am sure you will find friends on your journey who will
assist you in your search. Take care of the Patchwork Girl and bring her
safely back, for she ought to prove useful to my wife. As for the Glass
Cat--properly named Bungle--if she bothers you I now give you my
permission to break her in two, for she is not respectful and does not
obey me. I made a mistake in giving her the pink brains, you see."

Then Ojo went to Unc Nunkie and kissed the old man's marble face very
tenderly.

"I'm going to try to save you, Unc," he said, just as if the marble
image could hear him; and then he shook the crooked hand of the Crooked
Magician, who was already busy hanging the four kettles in the
fireplace, and picking up his basket left the house.

The Patchwork Girl followed him, and after them came the Glass Cat.




THE JOURNEY

CHAP. SIX

[Illustration]


Ojo had never traveled before and so he only knew that the path down the
mountainside led into the open Munchkin Country, where large numbers of
people dwelt. Scraps was quite new and not supposed to know anything of
the Land of Oz, while the Glass Cat admitted she had never wandered very
far away from the Magician's house. There was only one path before them,
at the beginning, so they could not miss their way, and for a time they
walked through the thick forest in silent thought, each one impressed
with the importance of the adventure they had undertaken.

Suddenly the Patchwork Girl laughed. It was funny to see her laugh,
because her cheeks wrinkled up, her nose tipped, her silver button eyes
twinkled and her mouth curled at the corners in a comical way.

"Has something pleased you?" asked Ojo, who was feeling solemn and
joyless through thinking upon his uncle's sad fate.

"Yes," she answered. "Your world pleases me, for it's a queer world, and
life in it is queerer still. Here am I, made from an old bed-quilt and
intended to be a slave to Margolotte, rendered free as air by an
accident that none of you could foresee. I am enjoying life and seeing
the world, while the woman who made me is standing helpless as a block
of wood. If that isn't funny enough to laugh at, I don't know what is."

"You're not seeing much of the world yet, my poor, innocent Scraps,"
remarked the Cat. "The world doesn't consist wholly of the trees that
are on all sides of us."

"But they're part of it; and aren't they pretty trees?" returned Scraps,
bobbing her head until her brown yarn curls fluttered in the breeze.
"Growing between them I can see lovely ferns and wild-flowers, and soft
green mosses. If the rest of your world is half as beautiful I shall be
glad I'm alive."

"I don't know what the rest of the world is like, I'm sure," said the
cat; "but I mean to find out."

"I have never been out of the forest," Ojo added; "but to me the trees
are gloomy and sad and the wild-flowers seem lonesome. It must be nicer
where there are no trees and there is room for lots of people to live
together."

"I wonder if any of the people we shall meet will be as splendid as I
am," said the Patchwork Girl. "All I have seen, so far, have pale,
colorless skins and clothes as blue as the country they live in, while I
am of many gorgeous colors--face and body and clothes. That is why I am
bright and contented, Ojo, while you are blue and sad."

"I think I made a mistake in giving you so many sorts of brains,"
observed the boy. "Perhaps, as the Magician said, you have an overdose,
and they may not agree with you."

"What had you to do with my brains?" asked Scraps.

"A lot," replied Ojo. "Old Margolotte meant to give you only a few--just
enough to keep you going--but when she wasn't looking I added a good
many more, of the best kinds I could find in the Magician's cupboard."

"Thanks," said the girl, dancing along the path ahead of Ojo and then
dancing back to his side. "If a few brains are good, many brains must be
better."

"But they ought to be evenly balanced," said the boy, "and I had no time
to be careful. From the way you're acting, I guess the dose was badly
mixed."

"Scraps hasn't enough brains to hurt her, so don't worry," remarked the
cat, which was trotting along in a very dainty and graceful manner. "The
only brains worth considering are mine, which are pink. You can see 'em
work."

After walking a long time they came to a little brook that trickled
across the path, and here Ojo sat down to rest and eat something from
his basket. He found that the Magician had given him part of a loaf of
bread and a slice of cheese. He broke off some of the bread and was
surprised to find the loaf just as large as it was before. It was the
same way with the cheese: however much he broke off from the slice, it
remained exactly the same size.

"Ah," said he, nodding wisely; "that's magic. Dr. Pipt has enchanted the
bread and the cheese, so it will last me all through my journey, however
much I eat."

"Why do you put those things into your mouth?" asked Scraps, gazing at
him in astonishment. "Do you need more stuffing? Then why don't you use
cotton, such as I am stuffed with?"

"I don't need that kind," said Ojo.

"But a mouth is to talk with, isn't it?"

"It is also to eat with," replied the boy. "If I didn't put food into my
mouth, and eat it, I would get hungry and starve."

"Ah, I didn't know that," she said. "Give me some."

Ojo handed her a bit of the bread and she put it in her mouth.

"What next?" she asked, scarcely able to speak.

"Chew it and swallow it," said the boy.

Scraps tried that. Her pearl teeth were unable to chew the bread and
beyond her mouth there was no opening. Being unable to swallow she threw
away the bread and laughed.

"I must get hungry and starve, for I can't eat," she said.

[Illustration]

"Neither can I," announced the cat; "but I'm not fool enough to try.
Can't you understand that you and I are superior people and not made
like these poor humans?"

"Why should I understand that, or anything else?" asked the girl. "Don't
bother my head by asking conundrums, I beg of you. Just let me discover
myself in my own way."

With this she began amusing herself by leaping across the brook and back
again.

"Be careful, or you'll fall in the water," warned Ojo.

"Never mind."

"You'd better. If you get wet you'll be soggy and can't walk. Your
colors might run, too," he said.

"Don't my colors run whenever I run?" she asked.

"Not in the way I mean. If they get wet, the reds and greens and yellows
and purples of your patches might run into each other and become just a
blur--no color at all, you know."

"Then," said the Patchwork Girl, "I'll be careful, for if I spoiled my
splendid colors I would cease to be beautiful."

"Pah!" sneered the Glass Cat, "such colors are not beautiful; they're
ugly, and in bad taste. Please notice that my body has no color at all.
I'm transparent, except for my exquisite red heart and my lovely pink
brains--you can see 'em work."

"Shoo--shoo--shoo!" cried Scraps, dancing around and laughing. "And your
horrid green eyes, Miss Bungle! You can't see your eyes, but we can, and
I notice you're very proud of what little color you have. Shoo, Miss
Bungle, shoo--shoo--shoo! If you were all colors and many colors, as I
am, you'd be too stuck up for anything." She leaped over the cat and
back again, and the startled Bungle crept close to a tree to escape her.
This made Scraps laugh more heartily than ever, and she said:

    "Whoop-te-doodle-doo!
    The cat has lost her shoe.
    Her tootsie's bare, but she don't care,
    So what's the odds to you?"

"Dear me, Ojo," said the cat; "don't you think the creature is a little
bit crazy?"

"It may be," he answered, with a puzzled look.

"If she continues her insults I'll scratch off her suspender-button
eyes," declared the cat.

"Don't quarrel, please," pleaded the boy, rising to resume the journey.
"Let us be good comrades and as happy and cheerful as possible, for we
are likely to meet with plenty of trouble on our way."

It was nearly sundown when they came to the edge of the forest and saw
spread out before them a delightful landscape. There were broad blue
fields stretching for miles over the valley, which was dotted everywhere
with pretty, blue domed houses, none of which, however, was very near to
the place where they stood. Just at the point where the path left the
forest stood a tiny house covered with leaves from the trees, and before
this stood a Munchkin man with an axe in his hand. He seemed very much
surprised when Ojo and Scraps and the Glass Cat came out of the woods,
but as the Patchwork Girl approached nearer he sat down upon a bench and
laughed so hard that he could not speak for a long time.

This man was a woodchopper and lived all alone in the little house. He
had bushy blue whiskers and merry blue eyes and his blue clothes were
quite old and worn.

"Mercy me!" exclaimed the woodchopper, when at last he could stop
laughing. "Who would think such a funny harlequin lived in the Land of
Oz? Where did you come from, Crazy-quilt?"

"Do you mean me?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

"Of course," he replied.

"You misjudge my ancestry. I'm not a crazy-quilt; I'm patchwork," she
said.

"There's no difference," he replied, beginning to laugh again. "When my
old grandmother sews such things together she calls it a crazy-quilt;
but I never thought such a jumble could come to life."

"It was the Magic Powder that did it," explained Ojo.

"Oh, then you have come from the Crooked Magician on the mountain. I
might have known it, for--Well, I declare! here's a glass cat. But the
Magician will get in trouble for this; it's against the law for anyone
to work magic except Glinda the Good and the royal Wizard of Oz. If you
people--or things--or glass spectacles--or crazy-quilts--or whatever you
are, go near the Emerald City, you'll be arrested."

"We're going there, anyhow," declared Scraps, sitting upon the bench and
swinging her stuffed legs.

    "If any of us takes a rest,
    We'll be arrested sure,
    And get no restitution
    'Cause the rest we must endure."

"I see," said the woodchopper, nodding; "you're as crazy as the
crazy-quilt you're made of."

"She really _is_ crazy," remarked the Glass Cat. "But that isn't to be
wondered at when you remember how many different things she's made of.
For my part, I'm made of pure glass--except my jewel heart and my pretty
pink brains. Did you notice my brains, stranger? You can see 'em work."

"So I can," replied the woodchopper; "but I can't see that they
accomplish much. A glass cat is a useless sort of thing, but a Patchwork
Girl is really useful. She makes me laugh, and laughter is the best
thing in life. There was once a woodchopper, a friend of mine, who was
made all of tin, and I used to laugh every time I saw him."

"A tin woodchopper?" said Ojo. "That is strange."

"My friend wasn't always tin," said the man, "but he was careless with
his axe, and used to chop himself very badly. Whenever he lost an arm or
a leg he had it replaced with tin; so after a while he was all tin."

"And could he chop wood then?" asked the boy.

"He could if he didn't rust his tin joints. But one day he met Dorothy
in the forest and went with her to the Emerald City, where he made his
fortune. He is now one of the favorites of Princess Ozma, and she has
made him the Emperor of the Winkies--the Country where all is yellow."

"Who is Dorothy?" inquired the Patchwork Girl.

"A little maid who used to live in Kansas, but is now a Princess of Oz.
She's Ozma's best friend, they say, and lives with her in the royal
palace."

"Is Dorothy made of tin?" inquired Ojo.

"Is she patchwork, like me?" inquired Scraps.

"No," said the man; "Dorothy is flesh, just as I am. I know of only one
tin person, and that is Nick Chopper, the Tin Woodman; and there will
never be but one Patchwork Girl, for any magician that sees you will
refuse to make another one like you."

"I suppose we shall see the Tin Woodman, for we are going to the Country
of the Winkies," said the boy.

"What for?" asked the woodchopper.

"To get the left wing of a yellow butterfly."

"It is a long journey," declared the man, "and you will go through
lonely parts of Oz and cross rivers and traverse dark forests before you
get there."

"Suits me all right," said Scraps. "I'll get a chance to see the
country."

"You're crazy, girl. Better crawl into a rag-bag and hide there; or give
yourself to some little girl to play with. Those who travel are likely
to meet trouble; that's why I stay at home."

[Illustration]

The woodchopper then invited them all to stay the night at his little
hut, but they were anxious to get on and so left him and continued along
the path, which was broader, now, and more distinct.

They expected to reach some other house before it grew dark, but the
twilight was brief and Ojo soon began to fear they had made a mistake in
leaving the woodchopper.

"I can scarcely see the path," he said at last. "Can you see it,
Scraps?"

"No," replied the Patchwork Girl, who was holding fast to the boy's arm
so he could guide her.

"I can see," declared the Glass Cat. "My eyes are better than yours, and
my pink brains--"

"Never mind your pink brains, please," said Ojo hastily; "just run ahead
and show us the way. Wait a minute and I'll tie a string to you; for
then you can lead us."

He got a string from his pocket and tied it around the cat's neck, and
after that the creature guided them along the path. They had proceeded
in this way for about an hour when a twinkling blue light appeared ahead
of them.

"Good! there's a house at last," cried Ojo. "When we reach it the good
people will surely welcome us and give us a night's lodging." But
however far they walked the light seemed to get no nearer, so by and by
the cat stopped short, saying:

"I think the light is traveling, too, and we shall never be able to
catch up with it. But here is a house by the roadside, so why go
farther?"

"Where is the house, Bungle?"

"Just here beside us, Scraps."

Ojo was now able to see a small house near the pathway. It was dark and
silent, but the boy was tired and wanted to rest, so he went up to the
door and knocked.

"Who is there?" cried a voice from within.

"I am Ojo the Unlucky, and with me are Miss Scraps Patchwork and the
Glass Cat," he replied.

"What do you want?" asked the Voice.

"A place to sleep," said Ojo.

"Come in, then; but don't make any noise, and you must go directly to
bed," returned the Voice.

Ojo unlatched the door and entered. It was very dark inside and he could
see nothing at all. But the cat exclaimed: "Why, there's no one here!"

"There must be," said the boy. "Some one spoke to me."

"I can see everything in the room," replied the cat, "and no one is
present but ourselves. But here are three beds, all made up, so we may
as well go to sleep."

"What is sleep?" inquired the Patchwork Girl.

"It's what you do when you go to bed," said Ojo.

"But why do you go to bed?" persisted the Patchwork Girl.

"Here, here! You are making altogether too much noise," cried the Voice
they had heard before. "Keep quiet, strangers, and go to bed."

The cat, which could see in the dark, looked sharply around for the
owner of the Voice, but could discover no one, although the Voice had
seemed close beside them. She arched her back a little and seemed
afraid. Then she whispered to Ojo: "Come!" and led him to a bed.

With his hands the boy felt of the bed and found it was big and soft,
with feather pillows and plenty of blankets. So he took off his shoes
and hat and crept into the bed. Then the cat led Scraps to another bed
and the Patchwork Girl was puzzled to know what to do with it.

"Lie down and keep quiet," whispered the cat, warningly.

"Can't I sing?" asked Scraps.

"No."

"Can't I whistle?" asked Scraps.

"No."

"Can't I dance till morning, if I want to?" asked Scraps.

"You must keep quiet," said the cat, in a soft voice.

"I don't want to," replied the Patchwork Girl, speaking as loudly as
usual. "What right have you to order me around? If I want to talk, or
yell, or whistle--"

Before she could say anything more an unseen hand seized her firmly and
threw her out of the door, which closed behind her with a sharp slam.
She found herself bumping and rolling in the road and when she got up
and tried to open the door of the house again she found it locked.

"What has happened to Scraps?" asked Ojo.

"Never mind. Let's go to sleep, or something will happen to us,"
answered the Glass Cat.

So Ojo snuggled down in his bed and fell asleep, and he was so tired
that he never wakened until broad daylight.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




THE TROUBLESOME PHONOGRAPH

CHAP. 7

[Illustration]


When the boy opened his eyes next morning he looked carefully around the
room. These small Munchkin houses seldom had more than one room in them.
That in which Ojo now found himself had three beds, set all in a row on
one side of it. The Glass Cat lay asleep on one bed, Ojo was in the
second, and the third was neatly made up and smoothed for the day. On
the other side of the room was a round table on which breakfast was
already placed, smoking hot. Only one chair was drawn up to the table,
where a place was set for one person. No one seemed to be in the room
except the boy and Bungle.

Ojo got up and put on his shoes. Finding a toilet stand at the head of
his bed he washed his face and hands and brushed his hair. Then he went
to the table and said:

"I wonder if this is my breakfast?"

"Eat it!" commanded a Voice at his side, so near that Ojo jumped. But no
person could he see.

He was hungry, and the breakfast looked good; so he sat down and ate all
he wanted. Then, rising, he took his hat and wakened the Glass Cat.

"Come on, Bungle," said he; "we must go."

He cast another glance about the room and, speaking to the air, he said:
"Whoever lives here has been kind to me, and I'm much obliged."

There was no answer, so he took his basket and went out the door, the
cat following him. In the middle of the path sat the Patchwork Girl,
playing with pebbles she had picked up.

"Oh, there you are!" she exclaimed cheerfully. "I thought you were never
coming out. It has been daylight a long time."

"What did you do all night?" asked the boy.

"Sat here and watched the stars and the moon," she replied. "They're
interesting. I never saw them before, you know."

"Of course not," said Ojo.

"You were crazy to act so badly and get thrown outdoors," remarked
Bungle, as they renewed their journey.

"That's all right," said Scraps. "If I hadn't been thrown out I wouldn't
have seen the stars, nor the big gray wolf."

"What wolf?" inquired Ojo.

"The one that came to the door of the house three times during the
night."

"I don't see why that should be," said the boy, thoughtfully; "there was
plenty to eat in that house, for I had a fine breakfast, and I slept in
a nice bed."

"Don't you feel tired?" asked the Patchwork Girl, noticing that the boy
yawned.

"Why, yes; I'm as tired as I was last night; and yet I slept very well."

"And aren't you hungry?"

"It's strange," replied Ojo. "I had a good breakfast, and yet I think
I'll now eat some of my crackers and cheese."

Scraps danced up and down the path. Then she sang:

    "Kizzle-kazzle-kore;
    The wolf is at the door,
    There's nothing to eat but a bone without meat,
    And a bill from the grocery store."

"What does that mean?" asked Ojo.

"Don't ask me," replied Scraps. "I say what comes into my head, but of
course I know nothing of a grocery store or bones without meat or--very
much else."

"No," said the cat; "she's stark, staring, raving crazy, and her brains
can't be pink, for they don't work properly."

"Bother the brains!" cried Scraps. "Who cares for 'em, anyhow? Have you
noticed how beautiful my patches are in this sunlight?"

Just then they heard a sound as of footsteps pattering along the path
behind them and all three turned to see what was coming. To their
astonishment they beheld a small round table running as fast as its four
spindle legs could carry it, and to the top was screwed fast a
phonograph with a big gold horn.

[Illustration]

"Hold on!" shouted the phonograph. "Wait for me!"

"Goodness me; it's that music thing which the Crooked Magician scattered
the Powder of Life over," said Ojo.

"So it is," returned Bungle, in a grumpy tone of voice; and then, as the
phonograph overtook them, the Glass Cat added sternly: "What are you
doing here, anyhow?"

"I've run away," said the music thing. "After you left, old Dr. Pipt and
I had a dreadful quarrel and he threatened to smash me to pieces if I
didn't keep quiet. Of course I wouldn't do that, because a
talking-machine is supposed to talk and make a noise--and sometimes
music. So I slipped out of the house while the Magician was stirring his
four kettles and I've been running after you all night. Now that I've
found such pleasant company, I can talk and play tunes all I want to."

Ojo was greatly annoyed by this unwelcome addition to their party. At
first he did not know what to say to the newcomer, but a little thought
decided him not to make friends.

"We are traveling on important business," he declared, "and you'll
excuse me if I say we can't be bothered."

"How very impolite!" exclaimed the phonograph.

"I'm sorry; but it's true," said the boy. "You'll have to go somewhere
else."

"This is very unkind treatment, I must say," whined the phonograph, in
an injured tone. "Everyone seems to hate me, and yet I was intended to
amuse people."

"It isn't you we hate, especially," observed the Glass Cat; "it's your
dreadful music. When I lived in the same room with you I was much
annoyed by your squeaky horn. It growls and grumbles and clicks and
scratches so it spoils the music, and your machinery rumbles so that the
racket drowns every tune you attempt."

"That isn't my fault; it's the fault of my records. I must admit that I
haven't a clear record," answered the machine.

"Just the same, you'll have to go away," said Ojo.

"Wait a minute," cried Scraps. "This music thing interests me. I
remember to have heard music when I first came to life, and I would like
to hear it again. What is your name, my poor abused phonograph?"

"Victor Columbia Edison," it answered.

"Well, I shall call you 'Vic' for short," said the Patchwork Girl. "Go
ahead and play something."

"It'll drive you crazy," warned the cat.

"I'm crazy now, according to your statement. Loosen up and reel out the
music, Vic."

"The only record I have with me," explained the phonograph, "is one the
Magician attached just before we had our quarrel. It's a highly
classical composition."

"A what?" inquired Scraps.

"It is classical music, and is considered the best and most puzzling
ever manufactured. You're supposed to like it, whether you do or not,
and if you don't, the proper thing is to look as if you did.
Understand?"

"Not in the least," said Scraps.

"Then, listen!"

At once the machine began to play and in a few minutes Ojo put his hands
to his ears to shut out the sounds and the cat snarled and Scraps began
to laugh.

"Cut it out, Vic," she said. "That's enough."

But the phonograph continued playing the dreary tune, so Ojo seized the
crank, jerked it free and threw it into the road. However, the moment
the crank struck the ground it bounded back to the machine again and
began winding it up. And still the music played.

"Let's run!" cried Scraps, and they all started and ran down the path as
fast as they could go. But the phonograph was right behind them and
could run and play at the same time. It called out, reproachfully:

"What's the matter? Don't you love classical music?"

"No, Vic," said Scraps, halting. "We will passical the classical and
preserve what joy we have left. I haven't any nerves, thank goodness,
but your music makes my cotton shrink."

"Then turn over my record. There's a rag-time tune on the other side,"
said the machine.

"What's rag-time?"

"The opposite of classical."

"All right," said Scraps, and turned over the record.

The phonograph now began to play a jerky jumble of sounds which proved
so bewildering that after a moment Scraps stuffed her patchwork apron
into the gold horn and cried: "Stop--stop! That's the other extreme.
It's extremely bad!"

Muffled as it was, the phonograph played on.

"If you don't shut off that music I'll smash your record," threatened
Ojo.

The music stopped, at that, and the machine turned its horn from one to
another and said with great indignation: "What's the matter now? Is it
possible you can't appreciate rag-time?"

"Scraps ought to, being rags herself," said the cat; "but I simply can't
stand it; it makes my whiskers curl."

"It is, indeed, dreadful!" exclaimed Ojo, with a shudder.

"It's enough to drive a crazy lady mad," murmured the Patchwork Girl.
"I'll tell you what, Vic," she added as she smoothed out her apron and
put it on again, "for some reason or other you've missed your guess.
You're not a concert; you're a nuisance."

"Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast," asserted the phonograph
sadly.

"Then we're not savages. I advise you to go home and beg the Magician's
pardon."

"Never! He'd smash me."

"That's what we shall do, if you stay here," Ojo declared.

"Run along, Vic, and bother some one else," advised Scraps. "Find some
one who is real wicked, and stay with him till he repents. In that way
you can do some good in the world."

The music thing turned silently away and trotted down a side path,
toward a distant Munchkin village.

"Is that the way _we_ go?" asked Bungle anxiously.

"No," said Ojo; "I think we shall keep straight ahead, for this path is
the widest and best. When we come to some house we will inquire the way
to the Emerald City."




THE FOOLISH OWL AND THE WISE DONKEY

CHAP. 8

[Illustration]


On they went, and half an hour's steady walking brought them to a house
somewhat better than the two they had already passed. It stood close to
the roadside and over the door was a sign that read: "Miss Foolish Owl
and Mr. Wise Donkey: Public Advisers."

When Ojo read this sign aloud Scraps said laughingly: "Well, here is a
place to get all the advice we want, maybe more than we need. Let's go
in."

The boy knocked at the door.

"Come in!" called a deep bass voice.

So they opened the door and entered the house, where a little
light-brown donkey, dressed in a blue apron and a blue cap, was engaged
in dusting the furniture with a blue cloth. On a shelf over the window
sat a great blue owl with a blue sunbonnet on her head, blinking her big
round eyes at the visitors.

"Good morning," said the donkey, in his deep voice, which seemed bigger
than he was. "Did you come to us for advice?"

"Why, we came, anyhow," replied Scraps, "and now we are here we may as
well have some advice. It's free, isn't it?

"Certainly," said the donkey. "Advice doesn't cost anything--unless you
follow it. Permit me to say, by the way, that you are the queerest lot
of travelers that ever came to my shop. Judging you merely by
appearances, I think you'd better talk to the Foolish Owl yonder."

They turned to look at the bird, which fluttered its wings and stared
back at them with its big eyes.

"Hoot-ti-toot-ti-toot!" cried the owl.

    "Fiddle-cum-foo,
    Howdy--do?
    Riddle-cum, tiddle-cum,
    Too-ra-la-loo!"

"That beats your poetry, Scraps," said Ojo.

"It's just nonsense!" declared the Glass Cat.

"But it's good advice for the foolish," said the donkey, admiringly.
"Listen to my partner, and you can't go wrong."

Said the owl in a grumbling voice:

    "Patchwork Girl has come to life;
    No one's sweetheart, no one's wife;
    Lacking sense and loving fun,
    She'll be snubbed by everyone."

"Quite a compliment! Quite a compliment, I declare," exclaimed the
donkey, turning to look at Scraps. "You are certainly a wonder, my dear,
and I fancy you'd make a splendid pincushion. If you belonged to me, I'd
wear smoked glasses when I looked at you."

"Why?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

"Because you are so gay and gaudy."

"It is my beauty that dazzles you," she asserted. "You Munchkin people
all strut around in your stupid blue color, while I--"

"You are wrong in calling me a Munchkin," interrupted the donkey, "for I
was born in the Land of Mo and came to visit the Land of Oz on the day
it was shut off from all the rest of the world. So here I am obliged to
stay, and I confess it is a very pleasant country to live in."

"Hoot-ti-toot!" cried the owl;

    "Ojo's searching for a charm,
    'Cause Unc Nunkie's come to harm.
    Charms are scarce; they're hard to get;
    Ojo's got a job, you bet!"

"Is the owl so very foolish?" asked the boy.

"Extremely so," replied the donkey. "Notice what vulgar expressions she
uses. But I admire the owl for the reason that she _is_ positively
foolish. Owls are supposed to be so very wise, generally, that a foolish
one is unusual, and you perhaps know that anything or anyone unusual is
sure to be interesting to the wise."

The owl flapped its wings again, muttering these words:

    "It's hard to be a glassy cat--
    No cat can be more hard than that;
    She's so transparent, every act
    Is clear to us, and that's a fact."

"Have you noticed my pink brains?" inquired Bungle, proudly. "You can
see 'em work."

"Not in the daytime," said the donkey. "She can't see very well by day,
poor thing. But her advice is excellent. I advise you all to follow it."

"The owl hasn't given us any advice, as yet," the boy declared.

"No? Then what do you call all those sweet poems?"

"Just foolishness," replied Ojo. "Scraps does the same thing."

"Foolishness! Of course! To be sure! The Foolish Owl must be foolish or
she wouldn't be the Foolish Owl. You are very complimentary to my
partner, indeed," asserted the donkey, rubbing his front hoofs together
as if highly pleased.

[Illustration]

"The sign says that _you_ are wise," remarked Scraps to the donkey. "I
wish you would prove it."

"With great pleasure," returned the beast. "Put me to the test, my dear
Patches, and I'll prove my wisdom in the wink of an eye."

"What is the best way to get to the Emerald City?" asked Ojo.

"Walk," said the donkey.

"I know; but what road shall I take?" was the boy's next question.

"The road of yellow bricks, of course. It leads directly to the Emerald
City."

"And how shall we find the road of yellow bricks?"

"By keeping along the path you have been following. You'll come to the
yellow bricks pretty soon, and you'll know them when you see them
because they're the only yellow things in the blue country."

"Thank you," said the boy. "At last you have told me something."

"Is that the extent of your wisdom?" asked Scraps.

"No," replied the donkey; "I know many other things, but they wouldn't
interest you. So I'll give you a last word of advice: move on, for the
sooner you do that the sooner you'll get to the Emerald City of Oz."

"Hoot-ti-toot-ti-toot-ti-too!" screeched the owl;

    "Off you go! fast or slow,
    Where you're going you don't know.
    Patches, Bungle, Munchkin lad,
    Facing fortunes good and bad,
    Meeting dangers grave and sad,
    Sometimes worried, sometimes glad--
    Where you're going you don't know,
    Nor do I, but off you go!"

"Sounds like a hint, to me," said the Patchwork Girl.

"Then let's take it and go," replied Ojo.

They said good-bye to the Wise Donkey and the Foolish Owl and at once
resumed their journey.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




THEY MEET THE WOOZY

CHAP. NINE

[Illustration]


"There seem to be very few houses around here, after all," remarked Ojo,
after they had walked for a time in silence.

"Never mind," said Scraps; "we are not looking for houses, but rather
the road of yellow bricks. Won't it be funny to run across something
yellow in this dismal blue country?"

"There are worse colors than yellow in this country," asserted the Glass
Cat, in a spiteful tone.

"Oh; do you mean the pink pebbles you call your brains, and your red
heart and green eyes?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

"No; I mean you, if you must know it," growled the cat.

"You're jealous!" laughed Scraps. "You'd give your whiskers for a
lovely variegated complexion like mine."

"I wouldn't!" retorted the cat. "I've the clearest complexion in the
world, and I don't employ a beauty-doctor, either."

"I see you don't," said Scraps.

"Please don't quarrel," begged Ojo. "This is an important journey, and
quarreling makes me discouraged. To be brave, one must be cheerful, so I
hope you will be as good-tempered as possible."

They had traveled some distance when suddenly they faced a high fence
which barred any further progress straight ahead. It ran directly across
the road and enclosed a small forest of tall trees, set close together.
When the group of adventurers peered through the bars of the fence they
thought this forest looked more gloomy and forbidding than any they had
ever seen before.

They soon discovered that the path they had been following now made a
bend and passed around the enclosure, but what made Ojo stop and look
thoughtful was a sign painted on the fence which read:

    "BEWARE OF THE WOOZY!"

"That means," he said, "that there's a Woozy inside that fence, and the
Woozy must be a dangerous animal or they wouldn't tell people to beware
of it."

"Let's keep out, then," replied Scraps. "That path is outside the fence,
and Mr. Woozy may have all his little forest to himself, for all we
care."

"But one of our errands is to find a Woozy," Ojo explained. "The
Magician wants me to get three hairs from the end of a Woozy's tail."

"Let's go on and find some other Woozy," suggested the cat. "This one is
ugly and dangerous, or they wouldn't cage him up. Maybe we shall find
another that is tame and gentle."

"Perhaps there isn't any other, at all," answered Ojo. "The sign doesn't
say: 'Beware _a_ Woozy'; it says: 'Beware _the_ Woozy,' which may mean
there's only one in all the Land of Oz."

"Then," said Scraps, "suppose we go in and find him? Very likely if we
ask him politely to let us pull three hairs out of the tip of his tail
he won't hurt us."

"It would hurt _him_, I'm sure, and that would make him cross," said the
cat.

"You needn't worry, Bungle," remarked the Patchwork Girl; "for if there
is danger you can climb a tree. Ojo and I are not afraid; are we, Ojo?"

"I am, a little," the boy admitted; "but this danger must be faced, if
we intend to save poor Unc Nunkie. How shall we get over the fence?"

"Climb," answered Scraps, and at once she began climbing up the rows of
bars. Ojo followed and found it more easy than he had expected. When
they got to the top of the fence they began to get down on the other
side and soon were in the forest. The Glass Cat, being small, crept
between the lower bars and joined them.

Here there was no path of any sort, so they entered the woods, the boy
leading the way, and wandered through the trees until they were nearly
in the center of the forest. They now came upon a clear space in which
stood a rocky cave.

So far they had met no living creature, but when Ojo saw the cave he
knew it must be the den of the Woozy.

It is hard to face any savage beast without a sinking of the heart, but
still more terrifying is it to face an unknown beast, which you have
never seen even a picture of. So there is little wonder that the pulses
of the Munchkin boy beat fast as he and his companions stood facing the
cave. The opening was perfectly square, and about big enough to admit a
goat.

"I guess the Woozy is asleep," said Scraps. "Shall I throw in a stone,
to waken him?"

"No; please don't," answered Ojo, his voice trembling a little. "I'm in
no hurry."

But he had not long to wait, for the Woozy heard the sound of voices and
came trotting out of his cave. As this is the only Woozy that has ever
lived, either in the Land of Oz or out of it, I must describe it to you.

The creature was all squares and flat surfaces and edges. Its head was
an exact square, like one of the building-blocks a child plays with;
therefore it had no ears, but heard sounds through two openings in the
upper corners. Its nose, being in the center of a square surface, was
flat, while the mouth was formed by the opening of the lower edge of the
block. The body of the Woozy was much larger than its head, but was
likewise block-shaped--being twice as long as it was wide and high. The
tail was square and stubby and perfectly straight, and the four legs
were made in the same way, each being four-sided. The animal was covered
with a thick, smooth skin and had no hair at all except at the extreme
end of its tail, where there grew exactly three stiff, stubby hairs. The
beast was dark blue in color and his face was not fierce nor ferocious
in expression, but rather good-humored and droll.

Seeing the strangers, the Woozy folded his hind legs as if they had been
hinged and sat down to look his visitors over.

"Well, well," he exclaimed; "what a queer lot you are! At first I
thought some of those miserable Munchkin farmers had come to annoy me,
but I am relieved to find you in their stead. It is plain to me that you
are a remarkable group--as remarkable in your way as I am in mine--and
so you are welcome to my domain. Nice place, isn't it? But
lonesome--dreadfully lonesome."

"Why did they shut you up here?" asked Scraps, who was regarding the
queer, square creature with much curiosity.

"Because I eat up all the honey-bees which the Munchkin farmers who live
around here keep to make them honey."

"Are you fond of eating honey-bees?" inquired the boy.

"Very. They are really delicious. But the farmers did not like to lose
their bees and so they tried to destroy me. Of course they couldn't do
that."

"Why not?"

"My skin is so thick and tough that nothing can get through it to hurt
me. So, finding they could not destroy me, they drove me into this
forest and built a fence around me. Unkind, wasn't it?"

"But what do you eat now?" asked Ojo.

"Nothing at all. I've tried the leaves from the trees and the mosses and
creeping vines, but they don't seem to suit my taste. So, there being no
honey-bees here, I've eaten nothing for years."

"You must be awfully hungry," said the boy. "I've got some bread and
cheese in my basket. Would you like that kind of food?"

"Give me a nibble and I will try it; then I can tell you better whether
it is grateful to my appetite," returned the Woozy.

So the boy opened his basket and broke a piece off the loaf of bread. He
tossed it toward the Woozy, who cleverly caught it in his mouth and ate
it in a twinkling.

"That's rather good," declared the animal. "Any more?"

"Try some cheese," said Ojo, and threw down a piece.

The Woozy ate that, too, and smacked its long, thin lips.

"That's mighty good!" it exclaimed. "Any more?"

"Plenty," replied Ojo. So he sat down on a stump and fed the Woozy bread
and cheese for a long time; for, no matter how much the boy broke off,
the loaf and the slice remained just as big.

"That'll do," said the Woozy, at last; "I'm quite full. I hope the
strange food won't give me indigestion."

"I hope not," said Ojo. "It's what I eat."

"Well, I must say I'm much obliged, and I'm glad you came," announced
the beast. "Is there anything I can do in return for your kindness?"

"Yes," said Ojo earnestly, "you have it in your power to do me a great
favor, if you will."

"What is it?" asked the Woozy. "Name the favor and I will grant it."

"I--I want three hairs from the tip of your tail," said Ojo, with some
hesitation.

"Three hairs! Why, that's all I have--on my tail or anywhere else,"
exclaimed the beast.

"I know; but I want them very much."

"They are my sole ornaments, my prettiest feature," said the Woozy,
uneasily. "If I give up those three hairs I--I'm just a blockhead."

"Yet I must have them," insisted the boy, firmly, and he then told the
Woozy all about the accident to Unc Nunkie and Margolotte, and how the
three hairs were to be a part of the magic charm that would restore
them to life. The beast listened with attention and when Ojo had
finished the recital it said, with a sigh:

"I always keep my word, for I pride myself on being square. So you may
have the three hairs, and welcome. I think, under such circumstances, it
would be selfish in me to refuse you."

"Thank you! Thank you very much," cried the boy, joyfully. "May I pull
out the hairs now?"

"Any time you like," answered the Woozy.

So Ojo went up to the queer creature and taking hold of one of the hairs
began to pull. He pulled harder. He pulled with all his might; but the
hair remained fast.

"What's the trouble?" asked the Woozy, which Ojo had dragged here and
there all around the clearing in his endeavor to pull out the hair.

"It won't come," said the boy, panting.

"I was afraid of that," declared the beast. "You'll have to pull
harder."

"I'll help you," exclaimed Scraps, coming to the boy's side. "You pull
the hair, and I'll pull you, and together we ought to get it out
easily."

"Wait a jiffy," called the Woozy, and then it went to a tree and hugged
it with its front paws, so that its body couldn't be dragged around by
the pull. "All ready, now. Go ahead!"

Ojo grasped the hair with both hands and pulled with all his strength,
while Scraps seized the boy around his waist and added her strength to
his. But the hair wouldn't budge. Instead, it slipped out of Ojo's hands
and he and Scraps both rolled upon the ground in a heap and never
stopped until they bumped against the rocky cave.

[Illustration]

"Give it up," advised the Glass Cat, as the boy arose and assisted the
Patchwork Girl to her feet. "A dozen strong men couldn't pull out those
hairs. I believe they're clinched on the under side of the Woozy's thick
skin."

"Then what shall I do?" asked the boy, despairingly. "If on our return I
fail to take these three hairs to the Crooked Magician, the other things
I have come to seek will be of no use at all, and we cannot restore Unc
Nunkie and Margolotte to life."

"They're goners, I guess," said the Patchwork Girl.

"Never mind," added the cat. "I can't see that old Unc and Margolotte
are worth all this trouble, anyhow."

But Ojo did not feel that way. He was so disheartened that he sat down
upon a stump and began to cry.

The Woozy looked at the boy thoughtfully.

"Why don't you take me with you?" asked the beast. "Then, when at last
you get to the Magician's house, he can surely find some way to pull out
those three hairs."

Ojo was overjoyed at this suggestion.

"That's it!" he cried, wiping away the tears and springing to his feet
with a smile. "If I take the three hairs to the Magician, it won't
matter if they are still in your body."

"It can't matter in the least," agreed the Woozy.

"Come on, then," said the boy, picking up his basket; "let us start at
once. I have several other things to find, you know."

But the Glass Cat gave a little laugh and inquired in her scornful way:

"How do you intend to get the beast out of this forest?"

That puzzled them all for a time.

"Let us go to the fence, and then we may find a way," suggested Scraps.
So they walked through the forest to the fence, reaching it at a point
exactly opposite that where they had entered the enclosure.

"How did you get in?" asked the Woozy.

"We climbed over," answered Ojo.

"I can't do that," said the beast. "I'm a very swift runner, for I can
overtake a honey-bee as it flies; and I can jump very high, which is the
reason they made such a tall fence to keep me in. But I can't climb at
all, and I'm too big to squeeze between the bars of the fence."

Ojo tried to think what to do.

"Can you dig?" he asked.

"No," answered the Woozy, "for I have no claws. My feet are quite flat
on the bottom of them. Nor can I gnaw away the boards, as I have no
teeth."

"You're not such a terrible creature, after all," remarked Scraps.

"You haven't heard me growl, or you wouldn't say that," declared the
Woozy. "When I growl, the sound echoes like thunder all through the
valleys and woodlands, and children tremble with fear, and women cover
their heads with their aprons, and big men run and hide. I suppose there
is nothing in the world so terrible to listen to as the growl of a
Woozy."

"Please don't growl, then," begged Ojo, earnestly.

"There is no danger of my growling, for I am not angry. Only when angry
do I utter my fearful, ear-splitting, soul-shuddering growl. Also, when
I am angry, my eyes flash fire, whether I growl or not."

"Real fire?" asked Ojo.

"Of course, real fire. Do you suppose they'd flash imitation fire?"
inquired the Woozy, in an injured tone.

"In that case, I've solved the riddle," cried Scraps, dancing with glee.
"Those fence-boards are made of wood, and if the Woozy stands close to
the fence and lets his eyes flash fire, they might set fire to the fence
and burn it up. Then he could walk away with us easily, being free."

"Ah, I have never thought of that plan, or I would have been free long
ago," said the Woozy. "But I cannot flash fire from my eyes unless I am
very angry."

"Can't you get angry 'bout something, please?" asked Ojo.

"I'll try. You just say 'Krizzle-Kroo' to me."

"Will that make you angry?" inquired the boy.

"Terribly angry."

"What does it mean?" asked Scraps.

"I don't know; that's what makes me so angry," replied the Woozy.

He then stood close to the fence, with his head near one of the boards,
and Scraps called out "Krizzle-Kroo!" Then Ojo said "Krizzle-Kroo!" and
the Glass Cat said "Krizzle-Kroo!" The Woozy began to tremble with anger
and small sparks darted from his eyes. Seeing this, they all cried
"Krizzle-Kroo!" together, and that made the beast's eyes flash fire so
fiercely that the fence-board caught the sparks and began to smoke. Then
it burst into flame, and the Woozy stepped back and said triumphantly:

"Aha! That did the business, all right. It was a happy thought for you
to yell all together, for that made me as angry as I have ever been.
Fine sparks, weren't they?"

[Illustration]

"Reg'lar fireworks," replied Scraps, admiringly.

In a few moments the board had burned to a distance of several feet,
leaving an opening big enough for them all to pass through. Ojo broke
some branches from a tree and with them whipped the fire until it was
extinguished.

"We don't want to burn the whole fence down," said he, "for the flames
would attract the attention of the Munchkin farmers, who would then come
and capture the Woozy again. I guess they'll be rather surprised when
they find he's escaped."

"So they will," declared the Woozy, chuckling gleefully. "When they find
I'm gone the farmers will be badly scared, for they'll expect me to eat
up their honey-bees, as I did before."

"That reminds me," said the boy, "that you must promise not to eat
honey-bees while you are in our company."

"None at all?"

"Not a bee. You would get us all into trouble, and we can't afford to
have any more trouble than is necessary. I'll feed you all the bread and
cheese you want, and that must satisfy you."

"All right; I'll promise," said the Woozy, cheerfully. "And when I
promise anything you can depend on it, 'cause I'm square."

"I don't see what difference that makes," observed the Patchwork Girl,
as they found the path and continued their journey. "The shape doesn't
make a thing honest, does it?"

"Of course it does," returned the Woozy, very decidedly. "No one could
trust that Crooked Magician, for instance, just because he _is_ crooked;
but a square Woozy couldn't do anything crooked if he wanted to."

"I am neither square nor crooked," said Scraps, looking down at her
plump body.

"No; you're round, so you're liable to do anything," asserted the Woozy.
"Do not blame me, Miss Gorgeous, if I regard you with suspicion. Many a
satin ribbon has a cotton back."

Scraps didn't understand this, but she had an uneasy misgiving that she
had a cotton back herself. It would settle down, at times, and make her
squat and dumpy, and then she had to roll herself in the road until her
body stretched out again.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




SHAGGY MAN TO THE RESCUE

CHAP. 10

[Illustration]


They had not gone very far before Bungle, who had run on ahead, came
bounding back to say that the road of yellow bricks was just before
them. At once they hurried forward to see what this famous road looked
like.

It was a broad road, but not straight, for it wandered over hill and
dale and picked out the easiest places to go. All its length and breadth
was paved with smooth bricks of a bright yellow color, so it was smooth
and level except in a few places where the bricks had crumbled or been
removed, leaving holes that might cause the unwary to stumble.

"I wonder," said Ojo, looking up and down the road, "which way to go."

"Where are you bound for?" asked the Woozy.

"The Emerald City," he replied.

"Then go west," said the Woozy. "I know this road pretty well, for I've
chased many a honey-bee over it."

"Have you ever been to the Emerald City?" asked Scraps.

"No. I am very shy by nature, as you may have noticed, so I haven't
mingled much in society."

"Are you afraid of men?" inquired the Patchwork Girl.

"Me? With my heart-rending growl--my horrible, shudderful growl? I
should say not. I am not afraid of anything," declared the Woozy.

"I wish I could say the same," sighed Ojo. "I don't think we need be
afraid when we get to the Emerald City, for Unc Nunkie has told me that
Ozma, our girl Ruler, is very lovely and kind, and tries to help
everyone who is in trouble. But they say there are many dangers lurking
on the road to the great Fairy City, and so we must be very careful."

"I hope nothing will break me," said the Glass Cat, in a nervous voice.
"I'm a little brittle, you know, and can't stand many hard knocks."

"If anything should fade the colors of my lovely patches it would break
my heart," said the Patchwork Girl.

"I'm not sure you have a heart," Ojo reminded her.

"Then it would break my cotton," persisted Scraps. "Do you think they
are all fast colors, Ojo?" she asked anxiously.

"They seem fast enough when you run," he replied; and then, looking
ahead of them, he exclaimed: "Oh, what lovely trees!"

They were certainly pretty to look upon and the travelers hurried
forward to observe them more closely.

"Why, they are not trees at all," said Scraps; "they are just monstrous
plants."

That is what they really were: masses of great broad leaves which rose
from the ground far into the air, until they towered twice as high as
the top of the Patchwork Girl's head, who was a little taller than Ojo.
The plants formed rows on both sides of the road and from each plant
rose a dozen or more of the big broad leaves, which swayed continually
from side to side, although no wind was blowing. But the most curious
thing about the swaying leaves was their color. They seemed to have a
general groundwork of blue, but here and there other colors glinted at
times through the blue--gorgeous yellows, turning to pink, purple,
orange and scarlet, mingled with more sober browns and grays--each
appearing as a blotch or stripe anywhere on a leaf and then
disappearing, to be replaced by some other color of a different shape.

The changeful coloring of the great leaves was very beautiful, but it
was bewildering, as well, and the novelty of the scene drew our
travelers close to the line of plants, where they stood watching them
with rapt interest.

Suddenly a leaf bent lower than usual and touched the Patchwork Girl.
Swiftly it enveloped her in its embrace, covering her completely in its
thick folds, and then it swayed back upon its stem.

[Illustration]

"Why, she's gone!" gasped Ojo, in amazement, and listening carefully he
thought he could hear the muffled screams of Scraps coming from the
center of the folded leaf. But, before he could think what he ought to
do to save her, another leaf bent down and captured the Glass Cat,
rolling around the little creature until she was completely hidden, and
then straightening up again upon its stem.

"Look out," cried the Woozy. "Run! Run fast, or you are lost."

Ojo turned and saw the Woozy running swiftly up the road. But the last
leaf of the row of plants seized the beast even as he ran and instantly
he disappeared from sight.

The boy had no chance to escape. Half a dozen of the great leaves were
bending toward him from different directions and as he stood hesitating
one of them clutched him in its embrace. In a flash he was in the dark.
Then he felt himself gently lifted until he was swaying in the air, with
the folds of the leaf hugging him on all sides.

At first he struggled hard to escape, crying out in anger: "Let me go!
Let me go!" But neither struggles nor protests had any effect whatever.
The leaf held him firmly and he was a prisoner.

Then Ojo quieted himself and tried to think. Despair fell upon him when
he remembered that all his little party had been captured, even as he
was, and there was none to save them.

"I might have expected it," he sobbed, miserably. "I'm Ojo the Unlucky,
and something dreadful was sure to happen to me."

He pushed against the leaf that held him and found it to be soft, but
thick and firm. It was like a great bandage all around him and he found
it difficult to move his body or limbs in order to change their
position.

The minutes passed and became hours. Ojo wondered how long one could
live in such a condition and if the leaf would gradually sap his
strength and even his life, in order to feed itself. The little Munchkin
boy had never heard of any person dying in the Land of Oz, but he knew
one could suffer a great deal of pain. His greatest fear at this time
was that he would always remain imprisoned in the beautiful leaf and
never see the light of day again.

No sound came to him through the leaf; all around was intense silence.
Ojo wondered if Scraps had stopped screaming, or if the folds of the
leaf prevented his hearing her. By and by he thought he heard a whistle,
as of some one whistling a tune. Yes; it really must be some one
whistling, he decided, for he could follow the strains of a pretty
Munchkin melody that Unc Nunkie used to sing to him. The sounds were low
and sweet and, although they reached Ojo's ears very faintly, they were
clear and harmonious.

Could the leaf whistle, Ojo wondered? Nearer and nearer came the sounds
and then they seemed to be just the other side of the leaf that was
hugging him.

Suddenly the whole leaf toppled and fell, carrying the boy with it, and
while he sprawled at full length the folds slowly relaxed and set him
free. He scrambled quickly to his feet and found that a strange man was
standing before him--a man so curious in appearance that the boy stared
with round eyes.

He was a big man, with shaggy whiskers, shaggy eyebrows, shaggy
hair--but kindly blue eyes that were gentle as those of a cow. On his
head was a green velvet hat with a jeweled band, which was all shaggy
around the brim. Rich but shaggy laces were at his throat; a coat with
shaggy edges was decorated with diamond buttons; the velvet breeches had
jeweled buckles at the knees and shags all around the bottoms. On his
breast hung a medallion bearing a picture of Princess Dorothy of Oz, and
in his hand, as he stood looking at Ojo, was a sharp knife shaped like a
dagger.

"Oh!" exclaimed Ojo, greatly astonished at the sight of this stranger;
and then he added: "Who has saved me, sir?"

"Can't you see?" replied the other, with a smile; "I'm the Shaggy Man."

"Yes; I can see that," said the boy, nodding. "Was it you who rescued me
from the leaf?"

"None other, you may be sure. But take care, or I shall have to rescue
you again."

Ojo gave a jump, for he saw several broad leaves leaning toward him; but
the Shaggy Man began to whistle again, and at the sound the leaves all
straightened up on their stems and kept still.

The man now took Ojo's arm and led him up the road, past the last of the
great plants, and not till he was safely beyond their reach did he cease
his whistling.

"You see, the music charms 'em," said he. "Singing or whistling--it
doesn't matter which--makes 'em behave, and nothing else will. I always
whistle as I go by 'em and so they always let me alone. To-day as I went
by, whistling, I saw a leaf curled and knew there must be something
inside it. I cut down the leaf with my knife and--out you popped. Lucky
I passed by, wasn't it?"

"You were very kind," said Ojo, "and I thank you. Will you please rescue
my companions, also?"

"What companions?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"The leaves grabbed them all," said the boy. "There's a Patchwork Girl
and--"

"A what?"

"A girl made of patchwork, you know. She's alive and her name is Scraps.
And there's a Glass Cat--"

"Glass?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"All glass."

"And alive?"

"Yes," said Ojo; "she has pink brains. And there's a Woozy--"

"What's a Woozy?" inquired the Shaggy Man.

"Why, I--I--can't describe it," answered the boy, greatly perplexed.
"But it's a queer animal with three hairs on the tip of its tail that
won't come out and--"

"What won't come out?" asked the Shaggy Man; "the tail?"

"The hairs won't come out. But you'll see the Woozy, if you'll please
rescue it, and then you'll know just what it is."

[Illustration]

"Of course," said the Shaggy Man, nodding his shaggy head. And then he
walked back among the plants, still whistling, and found the three
leaves which were curled around Ojo's traveling companions. The first
leaf he cut down released Scraps, and on seeing her the Shaggy Man threw
back his shaggy head, opened wide his mouth and laughed so shaggily and
yet so merrily, that Scraps liked him at once. Then he took off his hat
and made her a low bow, saying:

"My dear, you're a wonder. I must introduce you to my friend the
Scarecrow."

When he cut down the second leaf he rescued the Glass Cat, and Bungle
was so frightened that she scampered away like a streak and soon had
joined Ojo, when she sat beside him panting and trembling. The last
plant of all the row had captured the Woozy, and a big bunch in the
center of the curled leaf showed plainly where he was. With his sharp
knife the Shaggy Man sliced off the stem of the leaf and as it fell and
unfolded out trotted the Woozy and escaped beyond the reach of any more
of the dangerous plants.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




A GOOD FRIEND

CHAP. 11.

[Illustration]


Soon the entire party was gathered on the road of yellow bricks, quite
beyond the reach of the beautiful but treacherous plants. The Shaggy
Man, staring first at one and then at the other, seemed greatly pleased
and interested.

"I've seen queer things since I came to the Land of Oz," said he, "but
never anything queerer than this band of adventurers. Let us sit down a
while, and have a talk and get acquainted."

"Haven't you always lived in the Land of Oz?" asked the Munchkin boy.

"No; I used to live in the big, outside world. But I came here once with
Dorothy, and Ozma let me stay."

"How do you like Oz?" asked Scraps. "Isn't the country and the climate
grand?"

"It's the finest country in all the world, even if it is a fairyland,
and I'm happy every minute I live in it," said the Shaggy Man. "But tell
me something about yourselves."

So Ojo related the story of his visit to the house of the Crooked
Magician, and how he met there the Glass Cat, and how the Patchwork Girl
was brought to life and of the terrible accident to Unc Nunkie and
Margolotte. Then he told how he had set out to find the five different
things which the Magician needed to make a charm that would restore the
marble figures to life, one requirement being three hairs from a Woozy's
tail.

"We found the Woozy," explained the boy, "and he agreed to give us the
three hairs; but we couldn't pull them out. So we had to bring the Woozy
along with us."

"I see," returned the Shaggy Man, who had listened with interest to the
story. "But perhaps I, who am big and strong, can pull those three hairs
from the Woozy's tail."

"Try it, if you like," said the Woozy.

So the Shaggy Man tried it, but pull as hard as he could he failed to
get the hairs out of the Woozy's tail. So he sat down again and wiped
his shaggy face with a shaggy silk handkerchief and said:

"It doesn't matter. If you can keep the Woozy until you get the rest of
the things you need, you can take the beast and his three hairs to the
Crooked Magician and let him find a way to extract 'em. What are the
other things you are to find?"

"One," said Ojo, "is a six-leaved clover."

"You ought to find that in the fields around the Emerald City," said the
Shaggy Man. "There is a Law against picking six-leaved clovers, but I
think I can get Ozma to let you have one."

"Thank you," replied Ojo. "The next thing is the left wing of a yellow
butterfly."

"For that you must go to the Winkie Country," the Shaggy Man declared.
"I've never noticed any butterflies there, but that is the yellow
country of Oz and it's ruled by a good friend of mine, the Tin Woodman."

"Oh, I've heard of him!" exclaimed Ojo. "He must be a wonderful man."

"So he is, and his heart is wonderfully kind. I'm sure the Tin Woodman
will do all in his power to help you to save your Unc Nunkie and poor
Margolotte."

"The next thing I must find," said the Munchkin boy, "is a gill of water
from a dark well."

"Indeed! Well, that is more difficult," said the Shaggy Man, scratching
his left ear in a puzzled way. "I've never heard of a dark well; have
you?"

"No," said Ojo.

"Do you know where one may be found?" inquired the Shaggy Man.

"I can't imagine," said Ojo.

"Then we must ask the Scarecrow."

"The Scarecrow! But surely, sir, a scarecrow can't know anything."

"Most scarecrows don't, I admit," answered the Shaggy Man. "But this
Scarecrow of whom I speak is very intelligent. He claims to possess the
best brains in all Oz."

"Better than mine?" asked Scraps.

"Better than mine?" echoed the Glass Cat. "Mine are pink, and you can
see 'em work."

"Well, you can't see the Scarecrow's brains work, but they do a lot of
clever thinking," asserted the Shaggy Man. "If anyone knows where a
dark well is, it's my friend the Scarecrow."

"Where does he live?" inquired Ojo.

"He has a splendid castle in the Winkie Country, near to the palace of
his friend the Tin Woodman, and he is often to be found in the Emerald
City, where he visits Dorothy at the royal palace."

"Then we will ask him about the dark well," said Ojo.

"But what else does this Crooked Magician want?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"A drop of oil from a live man's body."

"Oh; but there isn't such a thing."

"That is what I thought," replied Ojo; "but the Crooked Magician said it
wouldn't be called for by the recipe if it couldn't be found, and
therefore I must search until I find it."

"I wish you good luck," said the Shaggy Man, shaking his head
doubtfully; "but I imagine you'll have a hard job getting a drop of oil
from a live man's body. There's blood in a body, but no oil."

[Illustration: I HATE DIGNITY]

"There's cotton in mine," said Scraps, dancing a little jig.

"I don't doubt it," returned the Shaggy Man admiringly. "You're a
regular comforter and as sweet as patchwork can be. All you lack is
dignity."

"I hate dignity," cried Scraps, kicking a pebble high in the air and
then trying to catch it as it fell. "Half the fools and all the wise
folks are dignified, and I'm neither the one nor the other."

"She's just crazy," explained the Glass Cat.

The Shaggy Man laughed.

"She's delightful, in her way," he said. "I'm sure Dorothy will be
pleased with her, and the Scarecrow will dote on her. Did you say you
were traveling toward the Emerald City?"

"Yes," replied Ojo. "I thought that the best place to go, at first,
because the six-leaved clover may be found there."

"I'll go with you," said the Shaggy Man, "and show you the way."

"Thank you," exclaimed Ojo. "I hope it won't put you out any."

"No," said the other, "I wasn't going anywhere in particular. I've been
a rover all my life, and although Ozma has given me a suite of beautiful
rooms in her palace I still get the wandering fever once in a while and
start out to roam the country over. I've been away from the Emerald City
several weeks, this time, and now that I've met you and your friends I'm
sure it will interest me to accompany you to the great city of Oz and
introduce you to my friends."

"That will be very nice," said the boy, gratefully.

"I hope your friends are not dignified," observed Scraps.

"Some are, and some are not," he answered; "but I never criticise my
friends. If they are really true friends, they may be anything they
like, for all of me."

"There's some sense in that," said Scraps, nodding her queer head in
approval. "Come on, and let's get to the Emerald City as soon as
possible." With this she ran up the path, skipping and dancing, and then
turned to await them.

"It is quite a distance from here to the Emerald City," remarked the
Shaggy Man, "so we shall not get there to-day, nor to-morrow. Therefore
let us take the jaunt in an easy manner. I'm an old traveler and have
found that I never gain anything by being in a hurry. 'Take it easy' is
my motto. If you can't take it easy, take it as easy as you can."

After walking some distance over the road of yellow bricks Ojo said he
was hungry and would stop to eat some bread and cheese. He offered a
portion of the food to the Shaggy Man, who thanked him but refused it.

"When I start out on my travels," said he, "I carry along enough square
meals to last me several weeks. Think I'll indulge in one now, as long
as we're stopping anyway."

Saying this, he took a bottle from his pocket and shook from it a tablet
about the size of one of Ojo's finger-nails.

"That," announced the Shaggy Man, "is a square meal, in condensed form.
Invention of the great Professor Wogglebug, of the Royal College of
Athletics. It contains soup, fish, roast meat, salad, apple-dumplings,
ice cream and chocolate-drops, all boiled down to this small size, so it
can be conveniently carried and swallowed when you are hungry and need a
square meal."

"I'm square," said the Woozy. "Give me one, please."

So the Shaggy Man gave the Woozy a tablet from his bottle and the beast
ate it in a twinkling.

"You have now had a six course dinner," declared the Shaggy Man.

"Pshaw!" said the Woozy, ungratefully, "I want to taste something.
There's no fun in that sort of eating."

"One should only eat to sustain life," replied the Shaggy Man, "and that
tablet is equal to a peck of other food."

"I don't care for it. I want something I can chew and taste," grumbled
the Woozy.

"You are quite wrong, my poor beast," said the Shaggy Man in a tone of
pity. "Think how tired your jaws would get chewing a square meal like
this, if it were not condensed to the size of a small tablet--which you
can swallow in a jiffy."

"Chewing isn't tiresome; it's fun," maintained the Woozy. "I always chew
the honey-bees when I catch them. Give me some bread and cheese, Ojo."

"No, no! You've already eaten a big dinner!" protested the Shaggy Man.

"May be," answered the Woozy; "but I guess I'll fool myself by munching
some bread and cheese. I may not be hungry, having eaten all those
things you gave me, but I consider this eating business a matter of
taste, and I like to realize what's going into me."

Ojo gave the beast what he wanted, but the Shaggy Man shook his shaggy
head reproachfully and said there was no animal so obstinate or hard to
convince as a Woozy.

At this moment a patter of footsteps was heard, and looking up they saw
the live phonograph standing before them. It seemed to have passed
through many adventures since Ojo and his comrades last saw the machine,
for the varnish of its wooden case was all marred and dented and
scratched in a way that gave it an aged and disreputable appearance.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Ojo, staring hard. "What has happened to you?"

"Nothing much," replied the phonograph in a sad and depressed voice.
"I've had enough things thrown at me, since I left you, to stock a
department store and furnish half a dozen bargain-counters."

"Are you so broken up that you can't play?" asked Scraps.

"No; I still am able to grind out delicious music. Just now I've a
record on tap that is really superb," said the phonograph, growing more
cheerful.

"That is too bad," remarked Ojo. "We've no objection to you as a
machine, you know; but as a music-maker we hate you."

"Then why was I ever invented?" demanded the machine, in a tone of
indignant protest.

They looked at one another inquiringly, but no one could answer such a
puzzling question. Finally the Shaggy Man said:

"I'd like to hear the phonograph play."

Ojo sighed. "We've been very happy since we met you, sir," he said.

"I know. But a little misery, at times, makes one appreciate happiness
more. Tell me, Phony, what is this record like, which you say you have
on tap?"

"It's a popular song, sir. In all civilized lands the common people have
gone wild over it."

"Makes civilized folks wild folks, eh? Then it's dangerous."

"Wild with joy, I mean," explained the phonograph. "Listen. This song
will prove a rare treat to you, I know. It made the author rich--for an
author. It is called 'My Lulu.'"

Then the phonograph began to play. A strain of odd, jerky sounds was
followed by these words, sung by a man through his nose with great
vigor of expression:

    "Ah want mah Lulu, mah cross-eyed Lulu;
    Ah want mah loo-loo, loo-loo, loo-loo, Lu!
    Ah love mah Lulu, mah cross-eyed Lulu,
    There ain't nobody else loves loo-loo, Lu!"

"Here--shut that off!" cried the Shaggy Man, springing to his feet.
"What do you mean by such impertinence?"

"It's the latest popular song," declared the phonograph, speaking in a
sulky tone of voice.

"A popular song?"

"Yes. One that the feeble-minded can remember the words of and those
ignorant of music can whistle or sing. That makes a popular song
popular, and the time is coming when it will take the place of all other
songs."

"That time won't come to us, just yet," said the Shaggy Man, sternly:
"I'm something of a singer myself, and I don't intend to be throttled by
any Lulus like your cross-eyed one. I shall take you all apart, Mr.
Phony, and scatter your pieces far and wide over the country, as a
matter of kindness to the people you might meet if allowed to run around
loose. Having performed this painful duty I shall--"

But before he could say more the phonograph turned and dashed up the
road as fast as its four table-legs could carry it, and soon it had
entirely disappeared from their view.

The Shaggy Man sat down again and seemed well pleased. "Some one else
will save me the trouble of scattering that phonograph," said he; "for
it is not possible that such a music-maker can last long in the Land of
Oz. When you are rested, friends, let us go on our way."

[Illustration]

During the afternoon the travelers found themselves in a lonely and
uninhabited part of the country. Even the fields were no longer
cultivated and the country began to resemble a wilderness. The road of
yellow bricks seemed to have been neglected and became uneven and more
difficult to walk upon. Scrubby underbrush grew on either side of the
way, while huge rocks were scattered around in abundance.

But this did not deter Ojo and his friends from trudging on, and they
beguiled the journey with jokes and cheerful conversation. Toward
evening they reached a crystal spring which gushed from a tall rock by
the roadside and near this spring stood a deserted cabin. Said the
Shaggy Man, halting here:

"We may as well pass the night here, where there is shelter for our
heads and good water to drink. Road beyond here is pretty bad; worst we
shall have to travel; so let's wait until morning before we tackle it."

They agreed to this and Ojo found some brushwood in the cabin and made a
fire on the hearth. The fire delighted Scraps, who danced before it
until Ojo warned her she might set fire to herself and burn up. After
that the Patchwork Girl kept at a respectful distance from the darting
flames, but the Woozy lay down before the fire like a big dog and seemed
to enjoy its warmth.

For supper the Shaggy Man ate one of his tablets, but Ojo stuck to his
bread and cheese as the most satisfying food. He also gave a portion to
the Woozy.

When darkness came on and they sat in a circle on the cabin floor,
facing the firelight--there being no furniture of any sort in the
place--Ojo said to the Shaggy Man:

"Won't you tell us a story?"

"I'm not good at stories," was the reply; "but I sing like a bird."

"Raven, or crow?" asked the Glass Cat.

"Like a song bird. I'll prove it. I'll sing a song I composed myself.
Don't tell anyone I'm a poet; they might want me to write a book. Don't
tell 'em I can sing, or they'd want me to make records for that awful
phonograph. Haven't time to be a public benefactor, so I'll just sing
you this little song for your own amusement."

They were glad enough to be entertained, and listened with interest
while the Shaggy Man chanted the following verses to a tune that was not
unpleasant:

    "I'll sing a song of Ozland, where wondrous creatures dwell
    And fruits and flowers and shady bowers abound in every dell,
    Where magic is a science and where no one shows surprise
    If some amazing thing takes place before his very eyes.

    Our Ruler's a bewitching girl whom fairies love to please;
    She's always kept her magic sceptre to enforce decrees
    To make her people happy, for her heart is kind and true
    And to aid the needy and distressed is what she longs to do.

    And then there's Princess Dorothy, as sweet as any rose,
    A lass from Kansas, where they don't grow fairies, I suppose;
    And there's the brainy Scarecrow, with a body stuffed with straw,
    Who utters words of wisdom rare that fill us all with awe.

    I'll not forget Nick Chopper, the Woodman made of Tin,
    Whose tender heart thinks killing time is quite a dreadful sin,
    Nor old Professor Wogglebug, who's highly magnified
    And looks so big to everyone that he is filled with pride.

    Jack Pumpkinhead's a dear old chum who might be called a chump,
    But won renown by riding round upon a magic Gump;
    The Sawhorse is a splendid steed and though he's made of wood
    He does as many thrilling stunts as any meat horse could.

    And now I'll introduce a beast that ev'ryone adores--
    The Cowardly Lion shakes with fear 'most ev'ry time he roars,
    And yet he does the bravest things that any lion might,
    Because he knows that cowardice is not considered right.

    There's Tik-tok--he's a clockwork man and quite a funny sight--
    He talks and walks mechanically, when he's wound up tight;
    And we've a Hungry Tiger who would babies love to eat
    But never does because we feed him other kinds of meat.

    It's hard to name all of the freaks this noble Land's acquired;
    'Twould make my song so very long that you would soon be tired;
    But give attention while I mention one wise Yellow Hen
    And Nine fine Tiny Piglets living in a golden pen.

    Just search the whole world over--sail the seas from coast
        to coast--
    No other nation in creation queerer folks can boast;
    And now our rare museum will include a Cat of Glass,
    A Woozy, and--last but not least--a crazy Patchwork Lass."

Ojo was so pleased with this song that he applauded the singer by
clapping his hands, and Scraps followed suit by clapping her padded
fingers together, although they made no noise. The cat pounded on the
floor with her glass paws--gently, so as not to break them--and the
Woozy, which had been asleep, woke up to ask what the row was about.

"I seldom sing in public, for fear they might want me to start an opera
company," remarked the Shaggy Man, who was pleased to know his effort
was appreciated. "Voice, just now, is a little out of training; rusty,
perhaps."

[Illustration]

"Tell me," said the Patchwork Girl earnestly, "do all those queer people
you mention really live in the Land of Oz?"

"Every one of 'em. I even forgot one thing: Dorothy's Pink Kitten."

"For goodness sake!" exclaimed Bungle, sitting up and looking
interested. "A Pink Kitten? How absurd! Is it glass?"

"No; just ordinary kitten."

"Then it can't amount to much. I have pink brains, and you can see 'em
work."

"Dorothy's kitten is all pink--brains and all--except blue eyes. Name's
Eureka. Great favorite at the royal palace," said the Shaggy Man,
yawning.

The Glass Cat seemed annoyed.

"Do you think a pink kitten--common meat--is as pretty as I am?" she
asked.

"Can't say. Tastes differ, you know," replied the Shaggy Man, yawning
again. "But here's a pointer that may be of service to you: make friends
with Eureka and you'll be solid at the palace."

"I'm solid now; solid glass."

"You don't understand," rejoined the Shaggy Man, sleepily. "Anyhow, make
friends with the Pink Kitten and you'll be all right. If the Pink Kitten
despises you, look out for breakers."

"Would anyone at the royal palace break a Glass Cat?"

"Might. You never can tell. Advise you to purr soft and look humble--if
you can. And now I'm going to bed."

Bungle considered the Shaggy Man's advice so carefully that her pink
brains were busy long after the others of the party were fast asleep.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




THE GIANT PORCUPINE

CHAP. 12

[Illustration]


Next morning they started out bright and early to follow the road of
yellow bricks toward the Emerald City. The little Munchkin boy was
beginning to feel tired from the long walk, and he had a great many
things to think of and consider besides the events of the journey. At
the wonderful Emerald City, which he would presently reach, were so many
strange and curious people that he was half afraid of meeting them and
wondered if they would prove friendly and kind. Above all else, he could
not drive from his mind the important errand on which he had come, and
he was determined to devote every energy to finding the things that were
necessary to prepare the magic recipe. He believed that until dear Unc
Nunkie was restored to life he could feel no joy in anything, and often
he wished that Unc could be with him, to see all the astonishing things
Ojo was seeing. But alas Unc Nunkie was now a marble statue in the house
of the Crooked Magician and Ojo must not falter in his efforts to save
him.

The country through which they were passing was still rocky and
deserted, with here and there a bush or a tree to break the dreary
landscape. Ojo noticed one tree, especially, because it had such long,
silky leaves and was so beautiful in shape. As he approached it he
studied the tree earnestly, wondering if any fruit grew on it or if it
bore pretty flowers.

Suddenly he became aware that he had been looking at that tree a long
time--at least for five minutes--and it had remained in the same
position, although the boy had continued to walk steadily on. So he
stopped short, and when he stopped, the tree and all the landscape, as
well as his companions, moved on before him and left him far behind.

Ojo uttered such a cry of astonishment that it aroused the Shaggy Man,
who also halted. The others then stopped, too, and walked back to the
boy.

"What's wrong?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"Why, we're not moving forward a bit, no matter how fast we walk,"
declared Ojo. "Now that we have stopped, we are moving backward! Can't
you see? Just notice that rock."

Scraps looked down at her feet and said: "The yellow bricks are not
moving."

"But the whole road is," answered Ojo.

"True; quite true," agreed the Shaggy Man. "I know all about the tricks
of this road, but I have been thinking of something else and didn't
realize where we were."

"It will carry us back to where we started from," predicted Ojo,
beginning to be nervous.

"No," replied the Shaggy Man; "it won't do that, for I know a trick to
beat this tricky road. I've traveled this way before, you know. Turn
around, all of you, and walk backward."

"What good will that do?" asked the cat.

"You'll find out, if you obey me," said the Shaggy Man.

So they all turned their backs to the direction in which they wished to
go and began walking backward. In an instant Ojo noticed they were
gaining ground and as they proceeded in this curious way they soon
passed the tree which had first attracted his attention to their
difficulty.

"How long must we keep this up, Shags?" asked Scraps, who was constantly
tripping and tumbling down, only to get up again with a laugh at her
mishap.

"Just a little way farther," replied the Shaggy Man.

A few minutes later he called to them to turn about quickly and step
forward, and as they obeyed the order they found themselves treading
solid ground.

"That task is well over," observed the Shaggy Man. "It's a little
tiresome to walk backward, but that is the only way to pass this part of
the road, which has a trick of sliding back and carrying with it anyone
who is walking upon it."

[Illustration]

With new courage and energy they now trudged forward and after a time
came to a place where the road cut through a low hill, leaving high
banks on either side of it. They were traveling along this cut, talking
together, when the Shaggy Man seized Scraps with one arm and Ojo with
another and shouted: "Stop!"

"What's wrong now?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

"See there!" answered the Shaggy Man, pointing with his finger.

Directly in the center of the road lay a motionless object that bristled
all over with sharp quills, which resembled arrows. The body was as big
as a ten-bushel-basket, but the projecting quills made it appear to be
four times bigger.

"Well, what of it?" asked Scraps.

"That is Chiss, who causes a lot of trouble along this road," was the
reply.

"Chiss! What is Chiss?"

"I think it is merely an overgrown porcupine, but here in Oz they
consider Chiss an evil spirit. He's different from a reg'lar porcupine,
because he can throw his quills in any direction, which an American
porcupine cannot do. That's what makes old Chiss so dangerous. If we get
too near, he'll fire those quills at us and hurt us badly."

"Then we will be foolish to get too near," said Scraps.

"I'm not afraid," declared the Woozy. "The Chiss is cowardly, I'm sure,
and if it ever heard my awful, terrible, frightful growl, it would be
scared stiff."

"Oh; can you growl?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"That is the only ferocious thing about me," asserted the Woozy with
evident pride. "My growl makes an earthquake blush and the thunder
ashamed of itself. If I growled at that creature you call Chiss, it
would immediately think the world had cracked in two and bumped against
the sun and moon, and that would cause the monster to run as far and as
fast as its legs could carry it."

"In that case," said the Shaggy Man, "you are now able to do us all a
great favor. Please growl."

"But you forget," returned the Woozy; "my tremendous growl would also
frighten you, and if you happen to have heart disease you might expire."

"True; but we must take that risk," decided the Shaggy Man, bravely.
"Being warned of what is to occur we must try to bear the terrific noise
of your growl; but Chiss won't expect it, and it will scare him away."

The Woozy hesitated.

"I'm fond of you all, and I hate to shock you," it said.

"Never mind," said Ojo.

"You may be made deaf."

"If so, we will forgive you."

"Very well, then," said the Woozy in a determined voice, and advanced a
few steps toward the giant porcupine. Pausing to look back, it asked:
"All ready?"

"All ready!" they answered.

"Then cover up your ears and brace yourselves firmly. Now, then--look
out!"

The Woozy turned toward Chiss, opened wide its mouth and said:

"Quee-ee-ee-eek."

"Go ahead and growl," said Scraps.

"Why, I--I _did_ growl!" retorted the Woozy, who seemed much astonished.

"What, that little squeak?" she cried.

[Illustration]

"It is the most awful growl that ever was heard, on land or sea, in
caverns or in the sky," protested the Woozy. "I wonder you stood the
shock so well. Didn't you feel the ground tremble? I suppose Chiss is
now quite dead with fright."

The Shaggy Man laughed merrily.

"Poor Wooz!" said he; "your growl wouldn't scare a fly."

The Woozy seemed to be humiliated and surprised. It hung its head a
moment, as if in shame or sorrow, but then it said with renewed
confidence: "Anyhow, my eyes can flash fire; and good fire, too; good
enough to set fire to a fence!"

"That is true," declared Scraps; "I saw it done myself. But your
ferocious growl isn't as loud as the tick of a beetle--or one of Ojo's
snores when he's fast asleep."

"Perhaps," said the Woozy, humbly, "I have been mistaken about my growl.
It has always sounded very fearful to me, but that may have been because
it was so close to my ears."

"Never mind," Ojo said soothingly; "it is a great talent to be able to
flash fire from your eyes. No one else can do that."

[Illustration]

As they stood hesitating what to do Chiss stirred and suddenly a shower
of quills came flying toward them, almost filling the air, they were so
many. Scraps realized in an instant that they had gone too near to
Chiss for safety, so she sprang in front of Ojo and shielded him from
the darts, which stuck their points into her own body until she
resembled one of those targets they shoot arrows at in archery games.
The Shaggy Man dropped flat on his face to avoid the shower, but one
quill struck him in the leg and went far in. As for the Glass Cat, the
quills rattled off her body without making even a scratch, and the skin
of the Woozy was so thick and tough that he was not hurt at all.

[Illustration]

When the attack was over they all ran to the Shaggy Man, who was moaning
and groaning, and Scraps promptly pulled the quill out of his leg. Then
up he jumped and ran over to Chiss, putting his foot on the monster's
neck and holding it a prisoner. The body of the great porcupine was now
as smooth as leather, except for the holes where the quills had been,
for it had shot every single quill in that one wicked shower.

"Let me go!" it shouted angrily. "How dare you put your foot on Chiss?"

"I'm going to do worse than that, old boy," replied the Shaggy Man. "You
have annoyed travelers on this road long enough, and now I shall put an
end to you."

"You can't!" returned Chiss. "Nothing can kill me, as you know perfectly
well."

"Perhaps that is true," said the Shaggy Man in a tone of disappointment.
"Seems to me I've been told before that you can't be killed. But if I
let you go, what will you do?"

"Pick up my quills again," said Chiss in a sulky voice.

"And then shoot them at more travelers? No; that won't do. You must
promise me to stop throwing quills at people."

"I won't promise anything of the sort," declared Chiss.

"Why not?"

"Because it is my nature to throw quills, and every animal must do what
Nature intends it to do. It isn't fair for you to blame me. If it were
wrong for me to throw quills, then I wouldn't be made with quills to
throw. The proper thing for you to do is to keep out of my way."

"Why, there's some sense in that argument," admitted the Shaggy Man,
thoughtfully; "but people who are strangers, and don't know you are
here, won't be able to keep out of your way."

"Tell you what," said Scraps, who was trying to pull the quills out of
her own body, "let's gather up all the quills and take them away with
us; then old Chiss won't have any left to throw at people."

"Ah, that's a clever idea. You and Ojo must gather up the quills while I
hold Chiss a prisoner; for, if I let him go, he will get some of his
quills and be able to throw them again."

So Scraps and Ojo picked up all the quills and tied them in a bundle so
they might easily be carried. After this the Shaggy Man released Chiss
and let him go, knowing that he was harmless to injure anyone.

"It's the meanest trick I ever heard of," muttered the porcupine
gloomily. "How would you like it, Shaggy Man, if I took all your shags
away from you?"

"If I threw my shags and hurt people, you would be welcome to capture
them," was the reply.

Then they walked on and left Chiss standing in the road sullen and
disconsolate. The Shaggy Man limped as he walked, for his wound still
hurt him, and Scraps was much annoyed because the quills had left a
number of small holes in her patches.

When they came to a flat stone by the roadside the Shaggy Man sat down
to rest, and then Ojo opened his basket and took out the bundle of
charms the Crooked Magician had given him.

"I am Ojo the Unlucky," he said, "or we would never have met that
dreadful porcupine. But I will see if I can find anything among these
charms which will cure your leg."

Soon he discovered that one of the charms was labelled: "For flesh
wounds," and this the boy separated from the others. It was only a bit
of dried root, taken from some unknown shrub, but the boy rubbed it upon
the wound made by the quill and in a few moments the place was healed
entirely and the Shaggy Man's leg was as good as ever.

"Rub it on the holes in my patches," suggested Scraps, and Ojo tried it,
but without any effect.

"The charm you need is a needle and thread," said the Shaggy Man. "But
do not worry, my dear; those holes do not look badly, at all."

"They'll let in the air, and I don't want people to think I'm airy, or
that I've been stuck up," said the Patchwork Girl.

"You were certainly stuck up until we pulled out those quills," observed
Ojo, with a laugh.

So now they went on again and coming presently to a pond of muddy water
they tied a heavy stone to the bundle of quills and sunk it to the
bottom of the pond, to avoid carrying it farther.




SCRAPS AND THE SCARECROW

CHAP. 13

[Illustration]


From here on the country improved and the desert places began to give
way to fertile spots; still no houses were yet to be seen near the road.
There were some hills, with valleys between them, and on reaching the
top of one of these hills the travelers found before them a high wall,
running to the right and the left as far as their eyes could reach.
Immediately in front of them, where the wall crossed the roadway, stood
a gate having stout iron bars that extended from top to bottom. They
found, on coming nearer, that this gate was locked with a great padlock,
rusty through lack of use.

"Well," said Scraps, "I guess we'll stop here."

"It's a good guess," replied Ojo. "Our way is barred by this great wall
and gate. It looks as if no one had passed through in many years."

"Looks are deceiving," declared the Shaggy Man, laughing at their
disappointed faces, "and this barrier is the most deceiving thing in all
Oz."

"It prevents our going any farther, anyhow," said Scraps. "There is no
one to mind the gate and let people through, and we've no key to the
padlock."

[Illustration]

"True," replied Ojo, going a little nearer to peep through the bars of
the gate. "What shall we do, Shaggy Man? If we had wings we might fly
over the wall, but we cannot climb it and unless we get to the Emerald
City I won't be able to find the things to restore Unc Nunkie to life."

"All very true," answered the Shaggy Man, quietly; "but I know this
gate, having passed through it many times."

"How?" they all eagerly inquired.

"I'll show you how," said he. He stood Ojo in the middle of the road and
placed Scraps just behind him, with her padded hands on his shoulders.
After the Patchwork Girl came the Woozy, who held a part of her skirt in
his mouth. Then, last of all, was the Glass Cat, holding fast to the
Woozy's tail with her glass jaws.

"Now," said the Shaggy Man, "you must all shut your eyes tight, and keep
them shut until I tell you to open them."

"I can't," objected Scraps. "My eyes are buttons, and they won't shut."

[Illustration]

So the Shaggy Man tied his red handkerchief over the Patchwork Girl's
eyes and examined all the others to make sure they had their eyes fast
shut and could see nothing.

"What's the game, anyhow--blind-man's-buff?" asked Scraps.

"Keep quiet!" commanded the Shaggy Man, sternly. "All ready? Then follow
me."

He took Ojo's-hand and led him forward over the road of yellow bricks,
toward the gate. Holding fast to one another they all followed in a row,
expecting every minute to bump against the iron bars. The Shaggy Man
also had his eyes closed, but marched straight ahead, nevertheless, and
after he had taken one hundred steps, by actual count, he stopped and
said:

"Now you may open your eyes."

They did so, and to their astonishment found the wall and the gateway
far behind them, while in front the former Blue Country of the Munchkins
had given way to green fields, with pretty farm-houses scattered among
them.

"That wall," explained the Shaggy Man, "is what is called an optical
illusion. It is quite real while you have your eyes open, but if you are
not looking at it the barrier doesn't exist at all. It's the same way
with many other evils in life; they seem to exist, and yet it's all
seeming and not true. You will notice that the wall--or what we thought
was a wall--separates the Munchkin Country from the green country that
surrounds the Emerald City, which lies exactly in the center of Oz.
There are two roads of yellow bricks through the Munchkin Country, but
the one we followed is the best of the two. Dorothy once traveled the
other way, and met with more dangers than we did. But all our troubles
are over for the present, as another day's journey will bring us to the
great Emerald City."

They were delighted to know this, and proceeded with new courage. In a
couple of hours they stopped at a farmhouse, where the people were very
hospitable and invited them to dinner. The farm folk regarded Scraps
with much curiosity but no great astonishment, for they were accustomed
to seeing extraordinary people in the Land of Oz.

The woman of this house got her needle and thread and sewed up the holes
made by the porcupine quills in the Patchwork Girl's body, after which
Scraps was assured she looked as beautiful as ever.

"You ought to have a hat to wear," remarked the woman, "for that would
keep the sun from fading the colors of your face. I have some patches
and scraps put away, and if you will wait two or three days I'll make
you a lovely hat that will match the rest of you."

"Never mind the hat," said Scraps, shaking her yarn braids; "it's a kind
offer, but we can't stop. I can't see that my colors have faded a
particle, as yet; can you?"

"Not much," replied the woman. "You are still very gorgeous, in spite
of your long journey."

The children of the house wanted to keep the Glass Cat to play with, so
Bungle was offered a good home if she would remain; but the cat was too
much interested in Ojo's adventures and refused to stop.

"Children are rough playmates," she remarked to the Shaggy Man, "and
although this home is more pleasant than that of the Crooked Magician I
fear I would soon be smashed to pieces by the boys and girls."

After they had rested themselves they renewed their journey, finding the
road now smooth and pleasant to walk upon and the country growing more
beautiful the nearer they drew to the Emerald City.

By and by Ojo began to walk on the green grass, looking carefully around
him.

"What are you trying to find?" asked Scraps.

"A six-leaved clover," said he.

"Don't do that!" exclaimed the Shaggy Man, earnestly. "It's against the
Law to pick a six-leaved clover. You must wait until you get Ozma's
consent."

"She wouldn't know it," declared the boy.

"Ozma knows many things," said the Shaggy Man. "In her room is a Magic
Picture that shows any scene in the Land of Oz where strangers or
travelers happen to be. She may be watching the picture of us even now,
and noticing everything that we do."

"Does she always watch the Magic Picture?" asked Ojo.

"Not always, for she has many other things to do; but, as I said, she
may be watching us this very minute."

"I don't care," said Ojo, in an obstinate tone of voice; "Ozma's only a
girl."

The Shaggy Man looked at him in surprise.

"You ought to care for Ozma," said he, "if you expect to save your
uncle. For, if you displease our powerful Ruler, your journey will
surely prove a failure; whereas, if you make a friend of Ozma, she will
gladly assist you. As for her being a girl, that is another reason why
you should obey her laws, if you are courteous and polite. Everyone in
Oz loves Ozma and hates her enemies, for she is as just as she is
powerful."

Ojo sulked a while, but finally returned to the road and kept away from
the green clover. The boy was moody and bad tempered for an hour or two
afterward, because he could really see no harm in picking a six-leaved
clover, if he found one, and in spite of what the Shaggy Man had said he
considered Ozma's law to be unjust.

They presently came to a beautiful grove of tall and stately trees,
through which the road wound in sharp curves--first one way and then
another. As they were walking through this grove they heard some one in
the distance singing, and the sounds grew nearer and nearer until they
could distinguish the words, although the bend in the road still hid the
singer. The song was something like this:

    "Here's to the hale old bale of straw
    That's cut from the waving grain,
    The sweetest sight man ever saw
    In forest, dell or plain.
    It fills me with a crunkling joy
    A straw-stack to behold,
    For then I pad this lucky boy
    With strands of yellow gold."

"Ah!" exclaimed the Shaggy Man; "here comes my friend the Scarecrow."

[Illustration]

"What, a live Scarecrow?" asked Ojo.

"Yes; the one I told you of. He's a splendid fellow, and very
intelligent. You'll like him, I'm sure."

Just then the famous Scarecrow of Oz came around the bend in the road,
riding astride a wooden Sawhorse which was so small that its rider's
legs nearly touched the ground.

The Scarecrow wore the blue dress of the Munchkins, in which country he
was made, and on his head was set a peaked hat with a flat brim trimmed
with tinkling bells. A rope was tied around his waist to hold him in
shape, for he was stuffed with straw in every part of him except the top
of his head, where at one time the Wizard of Oz had placed sawdust,
mixed with needles and pins, to sharpen his wits. The head itself was
merely a bag of cloth, fastened to the body at the neck, and on the
front of this bag was painted the face--ears, eyes, nose and mouth.

The Scarecrow's face was very interesting, for it bore a comical and yet
winning expression, although one eye was a bit larger than the other and
the ears were not mates. The Munchkin farmer who had made the Scarecrow
had neglected to sew him together with close stitches and therefore some
of the straw with which he was stuffed was inclined to stick out between
the seams. His hands consisted of padded white gloves, with the fingers
long and rather limp, and on his feet he wore Munchkin boots of blue
leather with broad turns at the tops of them.

The Sawhorse was almost as curious as its rider. It had been rudely
made, in the beginning, to saw logs upon, so that its body was a short
length of a log, and its legs were stout branches fitted into four holes
made in the body. The tail was formed by a small branch that had been
left on the log, while the head was a gnarled bump on one end of the
body. Two knots of wood formed the eyes, and the mouth was a gash
chopped in the log. When the Sawhorse first came to life it had no ears
at all, and so could not hear; but the boy who then owned him had
whittled two ears out of bark and stuck them in the head, after which
the Sawhorse heard very distinctly.

This queer wooden horse was a great favorite with Princess Ozma, who had
caused the bottoms of its legs to be shod with plates of gold, so the
wood would not wear away. Its saddle was made of cloth-of-gold richly
encrusted with precious gems. It had never worn a bridle.

As the Scarecrow came in sight of the party of travelers, he reined in
his wooden steed and dismounted, greeting the Shaggy Man with a smiling
nod. Then he turned to stare at the Patchwork Girl in wonder, while she
in turn stared at him.

"Shags," he whispered, drawing the Shaggy Man aside, "pat me into shape,
there's a good fellow!"

While his friend punched and patted the Scarecrow's body, to smooth out
the humps, Scraps turned to Ojo and whispered: "Roll me out, please;
I've sagged down dreadfully from walking so much and men like to see a
stately figure."

She then fell upon the ground and the boy rolled her back and forth like
a rolling-pin, until the cotton had filled all the spaces in her
patchwork covering and the body had lengthened to its fullest extent.
Scraps and the Scarecrow both finished their hasty toilets at the same
time, and again they faced each other.

"Allow me, Miss Patchwork," said the Shaggy Man, "to present my friend,
the Right Royal Scarecrow of Oz. Scarecrow, this is Miss Scraps Patches;
Scraps, this is the Scarecrow. Scarecrow--Scraps; Scraps--Scarecrow."

They both bowed with much dignity.

"Forgive me for staring so rudely," said the Scarecrow, "but you are the
most beautiful sight my eyes have ever beheld."

"That is a high compliment from one who is himself so beautiful,"
murmured Scraps, casting down her suspender-button eyes by lowering her
head. "But, tell me, good sir, are you not a trifle lumpy?"

"Yes, of course; that's my straw, you know. It bunches up, sometimes, in
spite of all my efforts to keep it even. Doesn't your straw ever bunch?"

"Oh, I'm stuffed with cotton," said Scraps. "It never bunches, but it's
inclined to pack down and make me sag."

"But cotton is a high-grade stuffing. I may say it is even more stylish,
not to say aristocratic, than straw," said the Scarecrow politely.
"Still, it is but proper that one so entrancingly lovely should have the
best stuffing there is going. I--er--I'm _so_ glad I've met you, Miss
Scraps! Introduce us again, Shaggy."

[Illustration]

"Once is enough," replied the Shaggy Man, laughing at his friend's
enthusiasm.

"Then tell me where you found her, and--Dear me, what a queer cat! What
are _you_ made of--gelatine?"

"Pure glass," answered the cat, proud to have attracted the Scarecrow's
attention. "I am much more beautiful than the Patchwork Girl. I'm
transparent, and Scraps isn't; I've pink brains--you can see 'em work;
and I've a ruby heart, finely polished, while Scraps hasn't any heart at
all."

"No more have I," said the Scarecrow, shaking hands with Scraps, as if
to congratulate her on the fact. "I've a friend, the Tin Woodman, who
has a heart, but I find I get along pretty well without one. And
so--Well, well! here's a little Munchkin boy, too. Shake hands, my
little man. How are you?"

Ojo placed his hand in the flabby stuffed glove that served the
Scarecrow for a hand, and the Scarecrow pressed it so cordially that the
straw in his glove crackled.

Meantime, the Woozy had approached the Sawhorse and begun to sniff at
it. The Sawhorse resented this familiarity and with a sudden kick
pounded the Woozy squarely on its head with one gold-shod foot.

"Take that, you monster!" it cried angrily.

The Woozy never even winked.

"To be sure," he said; "I'll take anything I have to. But don't make me
angry, you wooden beast, or my eyes will flash fire and burn you up."

The Sawhorse rolled its knot eyes wickedly and kicked again, but the
Woozy trotted away and said to the Scarecrow:

"What a sweet disposition that creature has! I advise you to chop it up
for kindling-wood and use me to ride upon. My back is flat and you can't
fall off."

"I think the trouble is that you haven't been properly introduced," said
the Scarecrow, regarding the Woozy with much wonder, for he had never
seen such a queer animal before. "The Sawhorse is the favorite steed of
Princess Ozma, the Ruler of the Land of Oz, and he lives in a stable
decorated with pearls and emeralds, at the rear of the royal palace. He
is swift as the wind, untiring, and is kind to his friends. All the
people of Oz respect the Sawhorse highly, and when I visit Ozma she
sometimes allows me to ride him--as I am doing to-day. Now you know what
an important personage the Sawhorse is, and if some one--perhaps
yourself--will tell me your name, your rank and station, and your
history, it will give me pleasure to relate them to the Sawhorse. This
will lead to mutual respect and friendship."

The Woozy was somewhat abashed by this speech and did not know how to
reply. But Ojo said:

"This square beast is called the Woozy, and he isn't of much importance
except that he has three hairs growing on the tip of his tail."

The Scarecrow looked and saw that this was true.

"But," said he, in a puzzled way, "what makes those three hairs
important? The Shaggy Man has thousands of hairs, but no one has ever
accused him of being important."

So Ojo related the sad story of Unc Nunkie's transformation into a
marble statue, and told how he had set out to find the things the
Crooked Magician wanted, in order to make a charm that would restore his
uncle to life. One of the requirements was three hairs from a Woozy's
tail, but not being able to pull out the hairs they had been obliged to
take the Woozy with them.

The Scarecrow looked grave as he listened and he shook his head several
times, as if in disapproval.

"We must see Ozma about this matter," he said. "That Crooked Magician is
breaking the Law by practicing magic without a license, and I'm not sure
Ozma will allow him to restore your uncle to life."

"Already I have warned the boy of that," declared the Shaggy Man.

At this Ojo began to cry. "I want my Unc Nunkie!" he exclaimed. "I know
how he can be restored to life, and I'm going to do it--Ozma or no Ozma!
What right has this girl Ruler to keep my Unc Nunkie a statue forever?"

"Don't worry about that just now," advised the Scarecrow. "Go on to the
Emerald City, and when you reach it have the Shaggy Man take you to see
Dorothy. Tell her your story and I'm sure she will help you. Dorothy is
Ozma's best friend, and if you can win her to your side your uncle is
pretty safe to live again." Then he turned to the Woozy and said: "I'm
afraid you are not important enough to be introduced to the Sawhorse,
after all."

[Illustration]

"I'm a better beast than he is," retorted the Woozy, indignantly. "My
eyes can flash fire, and his can't."

"Is this true?" inquired the Scarecrow, turning to the Munchkin boy.

"Yes," said Ojo, and told how the Woozy had set fire to the fence.

"Have you any other accomplishments?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I have a most terrible growl--that is, _sometimes_," said the Woozy, as
Scraps laughed merrily and the Shaggy Man smiled. But the Patchwork
Girl's laugh made the Scarecrow forget all about the Woozy. He said to
her:

"What an admirable young lady you are, and what jolly good company! We
must be better acquainted, for never before have I met a girl with such
exquisite coloring or such natural, artless manners."

"No wonder they call you the Wise Scarecrow," replied Scraps.

"When you arrive at the Emerald City I will see you again," continued
the Scarecrow. "Just now I am going to call upon an old friend--an
ordinary young lady named Jinjur--who has promised to repaint my left
ear for me. You may have noticed that the paint on my left ear has
peeled off and faded, which affects my hearing on that side. Jinjur
always fixes me up when I get weather-worn."

"When do you expect to return to the Emerald City?" asked the Shaggy
Man.

"I'll be there this evening, for I'm anxious to have a long talk with
Miss Scraps. How is it, Sawhorse; are you equal to a swift run?"

"Anything that suits you suits me," returned the wooden horse.

So the Scarecrow mounted to the jeweled saddle and waved his hat, when
the Sawhorse darted away so swiftly that they were out of sight in an
instant.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




OJO BREAKS THE LAW

CHAP. 14

[Illustration]


"What a queer man," remarked the Munchkin boy, when the party had
resumed its journey.

"And so nice and polite," added Scraps, bobbing her head. "I think he is
the handsomest man I've seen since I came to life."

"Handsome is as handsome does," quoted the Shaggy Man; "but we must
admit that no living scarecrow is handsomer. The chief merit of my
friend is that he is a great thinker, and in Oz it is considered good
policy to follow his advice."

"I didn't notice any brains in his head," observed the Glass Cat.

"You can't see 'em work, but they're there, all right," declared the
Shaggy Man. "I hadn't much confidence in his brains myself, when first
I came to Oz, for a humbug Wizard gave them to him; but I was soon
convinced that the Scarecrow is really wise; and, unless his brains make
him so, such wisdom is unaccountable."

"Is the Wizard of Oz a humbug?" asked Ojo.

"Not now. He was once, but he has reformed and now assists Glinda the
Good, who is the Royal Sorceress of Oz and the only one licensed to
practice magic or sorcery. Glinda has taught our old Wizard a good many
clever things, so he is no longer a humbug."

They walked a little while in silence and then Ojo said:

"If Ozma forbids the Crooked Magician to restore Unc Nunkie to life,
what shall I do?"

The Shaggy Man shook his head.

"In that case you can't do anything," he said. "But don't be discouraged
yet. We will go to Princess Dorothy and tell her your troubles, and then
we will let her talk to Ozma. Dorothy has the kindest little heart in
the world, and she has been through so many troubles herself that she is
sure to sympathize with you."

"Is Dorothy the little girl who came here from Kansas?" asked the boy.

"Yes. In Kansas she was Dorothy Gale. I used to know her there, and she
brought me to the Land of Oz. But now Ozma has made her a Princess, and
Dorothy's Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are here, too." Here the Shaggy Man
uttered a long sigh, and then he continued: "It's a queer country, this
Land of Oz; but I like it, nevertheless."

"What is queer about it?" asked Scraps.

"You, for instance," said he.

"Did you see no girls as beautiful as I am in your own country?" she
inquired.

"None with the same gorgeous, variegated beauty," he confessed. "In
America a girl stuffed with cotton wouldn't be alive, nor would anyone
think of making a girl out of a patchwork quilt."

"What a queer country America must be!" she exclaimed in great surprise.
"The Scarecrow, whom you say is wise, told me I am the most beautiful
creature he has ever seen."

"I know; and perhaps you are--from a scarecrow point of view," replied
the Shaggy Man; but why he smiled as he said it Scraps could not
imagine.

As they drew nearer to the Emerald City the travelers were filled with
admiration for the splendid scenery they beheld. Handsome houses stood
on both sides of the road and each had a green lawn before it as well as
a pretty flower garden.

"In another hour," said the Shaggy Man, "we shall come in sight of the
walls of the Royal City."

He was walking ahead, with Scraps, and behind them came the Woozy and
the Glass Cat. Ojo had lagged behind, for in spite of the warnings he
had received the boy's eyes were fastened on the clover that bordered
the road of yellow bricks and he was eager to discover if such a thing
as a six-leaved clover really existed.

Suddenly he stopped short and bent over to examine the ground more
closely. Yes; here at last was a clover with six spreading leaves. He
counted them carefully, to make sure. In an instant his heart leaped
with joy, for this was one of the important things he had come for--one
of the things that would restore dear Unc Nunkie to life.

[Illustration]

He glanced ahead and saw that none of his companions was looking back.
Neither were any other people about, for it was midway between two
houses. The temptation was too strong to be resisted.

"I might search for weeks and weeks, and never find another six-leaved
clover," he told himself, and quickly plucking the stem from the plant
he placed the prized clover in his basket, covering it with the other
things he carried there. Then, trying to look as if nothing had
happened, he hurried forward and overtook his comrades.

[Illustration]

The Emerald City, which is the most splendid as well as the most
beautiful city in any fairyland, is surrounded by a high, thick wall of
green marble, polished smooth and set with glistening emeralds. There
are four gates, one facing the Munchkin Country, one facing the Country
of the Winkies, one facing the Country of the Quadlings and one facing
the Country of the Gillikins. The Emerald City lies directly in the
center of these four important countries of Oz. The gates had bars of
pure gold, and on either side of each gateway were built high towers,
from which floated gay banners. Other towers were set at distances along
the walls, which were broad enough for four people to walk abreast upon.

This enclosure, all green and gold and glittering with precious gems,
was indeed a wonderful sight to greet our travelers, who first observed
it from the top of a little hill; but beyond the wall was the vast city
it surrounded, and hundreds of jeweled spires, domes and minarets,
flaunting flags and banners, reared their crests far above the towers of
the gateways. In the center of the city our friends could see the tops
of many magnificent trees, some nearly as tall as the spires of the
buildings, and the Shaggy Man told them that these trees were in the
royal gardens of Princess Ozma.

They stood a long time on the hilltop, feasting their eyes on the
splendor of the Emerald City.

"Whee!" exclaimed Scraps, clasping her padded hands in ecstacy, "that'll
do for me to live in, all right. No more of the Munchkin Country for
these patches--and no more of the Crooked Magician!"

"Why, you belong to Dr. Pipt," replied Ojo, looking at her in amazement.
"You were made for a servant, Scraps, so you are personal property and
not your own mistress."

"Bother Dr. Pipt! If he wants me, let him come here and get me. I'll not
go back to his den of my own accord; that's certain. Only one place in
the Land of Oz is fit to live in, and that's the Emerald City. It's
lovely! It's almost as beautiful as I am, Ojo."

"In this country," remarked the Shaggy Man, "people live wherever our
Ruler tells them to. It wouldn't do to have everyone live in the Emerald
City, you know, for some must plow the land and raise grains and fruits
and vegetables, while others chop wood in the forests, or fish in the
rivers, or herd the sheep and the cattle."

"Poor things!" said Scraps.

"I'm not sure they are not happier than the city people," replied the
Shaggy Man. "There's a freedom and independence in country life that not
even the Emerald City can give one. I know that lots of the city people
would like to get back to the land. The Scarecrow lives in the country,
and so do the Tin Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead; yet all three would be
welcome to live in Ozma's palace if they cared to. Too much splendor
becomes tiresome, you know. But, if we're to reach the Emerald City
before sundown, we must hurry, for it is yet a long way off."

The entrancing sight of the city had put new energy into them all and
they hurried forward with lighter steps than before. There was much to
interest them along the roadway, for the houses were now set more
closely together and they met a good many people who were coming or
going from one place or another. All these seemed happy-faced, pleasant
people, who nodded graciously to the strangers as they passed, and
exchanged words of greeting.

At last they reached the great gateway, just as the sun was setting and
adding its red glow to the glitter of the emeralds on the green walls
and spires. Somewhere inside the city a band could be heard playing
sweet music; a soft, subdued hum, as of many voices, reached their ears;
from the neighboring yards came the low mooing of cows waiting to be
milked.

They were almost at the gate when the golden bars slid back and a tall
soldier stepped out and faced them. Ojo thought he had never seen so
tall a man before. The soldier wore a handsome green and gold uniform,
with a tall hat in which was a waving plume, and he had a belt thickly
encrusted with jewels. But the most peculiar thing about him was his
long green beard, which fell far below his waist and perhaps made him
seem taller than he really was.

"Halt!" said the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, not in a stern voice
but rather in a friendly tone.

They halted before he spoke and stood looking at him.

"Good evening, Colonel," said the Shaggy Man. "What's the news since I
left? Anything important?"

"Billina has hatched out thirteen new chickens," replied the Soldier
with the Green Whiskers, "and they're the cutest little fluffy yellow
balls you ever saw. The Yellow Hen is mighty proud of those children, I
can tell you."

"She has a right to be," agreed the Shaggy Man. "Let me see; that's
about seven thousand chicks she has hatched out; isn't it, General?"

"That, at least," was the reply. "You will have to visit Billina and
congratulate her."

"It will give me pleasure to do that," said the Shaggy Man. "But you
will observe that I have brought some strangers home with me. I am going
to take them to see Dorothy."

"One moment, please," said the soldier, barring their way as they
started to enter the gate. "I am on duty, and I have orders to execute.
Is anyone in your party named Ojo the Unlucky?"

"Why, that's me!" cried Ojo, astonished at hearing his name on the lips
of a stranger.

The Soldier with the Green Whiskers nodded. "I thought so," said he,
"and I am sorry to announce that it is my painful duty to arrest you."

"Arrest me!" exclaimed the boy. "What for?"

"I haven't looked to see," answered the soldier. Then he drew a paper
from his breast pocket and glanced at it. "Oh, yes; you are to be
arrested for wilfully breaking one of the Laws of Oz."

"Breaking a law!" said Scraps. "Nonsense, Soldier; you're joking."

"Not this time," returned the soldier, with a sigh. "My dear child--what
are you, a rummage sale or a guess-me-quick?--in me you behold the
Body-Guard of our gracious Ruler, Princess Ozma, as well as the Royal
Army of Oz and the Police Force of the Emerald City."

"And only one man!" exclaimed the Patchwork Girl.

[Illustration]

"Only one, and plenty enough. In my official positions I've had nothing
to do for a good many years--so long that I began to fear I was
absolutely useless--until to-day. An hour ago I was called to the
presence of her Highness, Ozma of Oz, and told to arrest a boy named Ojo
the Unlucky, who was journeying from the Munchkin Country to the Emerald
City and would arrive in a short time. This command so astonished me
that I nearly fainted, for it is the first time anyone has merited
arrest since I can remember. You are rightly named Ojo the Unlucky, my
poor boy, since you have broken a Law of Oz."

"But you are wrong," said Scraps. "Ozma is wrong--you are all wrong--for
Ojo has broken no Law."

[Illustration]

"Then he will soon be free again," replied the Soldier with the Green
Whiskers. "Anyone accused of crime is given a fair trial by our Ruler
and has every chance to prove his innocence. But just now Ozma's orders
must be obeyed."

With this he took from his pocket a pair of handcuffs made of gold and
set with rubies and diamonds, and these he snapped over Ojo's wrists.

[Illustration]




OZMA'S PRISONER

CHAP. 15

[Illustration]


The boy was so bewildered by this calamity that he made no resistance at
all. He knew very well he was guilty, but it surprised him that Ozma
also knew it. He wondered how she had found out so soon that he had
picked the six-leaved clover. He handed his basket to Scraps and said:

"Keep that, until I get out of prison. If I never get out, take it to
the Crooked Magician, to whom it belongs."

The Shaggy Man had been gazing earnestly in the boy's face, uncertain
whether to defend him or not; but something he read in Ojo's expression
made him draw back and refuse to interfere to save him. The Shaggy Man
was greatly surprised and grieved, but he knew that Ozma never made
mistakes and so Ojo must really have broken the Law of Oz.

The Soldier with the Green Whiskers now led them all through the gate
and into a little room built in the wall. Here sat a jolly little man,
richly dressed in green and having around his neck a heavy gold chain to
which a number of great golden keys were attached. This was the Guardian
of the Gate and at the moment they entered his room he was playing a
tune upon a mouth-organ.

"Listen!" he said, holding up his hand for silence. "I've just composed
a tune called 'The Speckled Alligator.' It's in patch-time, which is
much superior to rag-time, and I've composed it in honor of the
Patchwork Girl, who has just arrived."

"How did you know I had arrived?" asked Scraps, much interested.

"It's my business to know who's coming, for I'm the Guardian of the
Gate. Keep quiet while I play you 'The Speckled Alligator.'"

It wasn't a very bad tune, nor a very good one, but all listened
respectfully while he shut his eyes and swayed his head from side to
side and blew the notes from the little instrument. When it was all over
the Soldier with the Green Whiskers said:

"Guardian, I have here a prisoner."

"Good gracious! A prisoner?" cried the little man, jumping up from his
chair. "Which one? Not the Shaggy Man?"

"No; this boy."

"Ah; I hope his fault is as small as himself," said the Guardian of the
Gate. "But what can he have done, and what made him do it?"

"Can't say," replied the soldier. "All I know is that he has broken the
Law."

"But no one ever does that!"

"Then he must be innocent, and soon will be released. I hope you are
right, Guardian. Just now I am ordered to take him to prison. Get me a
prisoner's robe from your Official Wardrobe."

[Illustration]

The Guardian unlocked a closet and took from it a white robe, which the
soldier threw over Ojo. It covered him from head to foot, but had two
holes just in front of his eyes, so he could see where to go. In this
attire the boy presented a very quaint appearance.

As the Guardian unlocked a gate leading from his room into the streets
of the Emerald City, the Shaggy Man said to Scraps:

"I think I shall take you directly to Dorothy, as the Scarecrow advised,
and the Glass Cat and the Woozy may come with us. Ojo must go to prison
with the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, but he will be well treated
and you need not worry about him."

"What will they do with him?" asked Scraps.

"That I cannot tell. Since I came to the Land of Oz no one has ever been
arrested or imprisoned--until Ojo broke the Law."

"Seems to me that girl Ruler of yours is making a big fuss over
nothing," remarked Scraps, tossing her yarn hair out of her eyes with a
jerk of her patched head. "I don't know what Ojo has done, but it
couldn't be anything very bad, for you and I were with him all the
time."

The Shaggy Man made no reply to this speech and presently the Patchwork
Girl forgot all about Ojo in her admiration of the wonderful city she
had entered.

They soon separated from the Munchkin boy, who was led by the Soldier
with the Green Whiskers down a side street toward the prison. Ojo felt
very miserable and greatly ashamed of himself, but he was beginning to
grow angry because he was treated in such a disgraceful manner. Instead
of entering the splendid Emerald City as a respectable traveler who was
entitled to a welcome and to hospitality, he was being brought in as a
criminal, handcuffed and in a robe that told all he met of his deep
disgrace.

Ojo was by nature gentle and affectionate and if he had disobeyed the
Law of Oz it was to restore his dear Unc Nunkie to life. His fault was
more thoughtless than wicked, but that did not alter the fact that he
had committed a fault. At first he had felt sorrow and remorse, but the
more he thought about the unjust treatment he had received--unjust
merely because he considered it so--the more he resented his arrest,
blaming Ozma for making foolish laws and then punishing folks who broke
them. Only a six-leaved clover! A tiny green plant growing neglected and
trampled under foot. What harm could there be in picking it? Ojo began
to think Ozma must be a very bad and oppressive Ruler for such a lovely
fairyland as Oz. The Shaggy Man said the people loved her; but how could
they?

The little Munchkin boy was so busy thinking these things--which many
guilty prisoners have thought before him--that he scarcely noticed all
the splendor of the city streets through which they passed. Whenever
they met any of the happy, smiling people, the boy turned his head away
in shame, although none knew who was beneath the robe.

By and by they reached a house built just beside the great city wall,
but in a quiet, retired place. It was a pretty house, neatly painted and
with many windows. Before it was a garden filled with blooming flowers.
The Soldier with the Green Whiskers led Ojo up the gravel path to the
front door, on which he knocked.

A woman opened the door and, seeing Ojo in his white robe, exclaimed:

"Goodness me! A prisoner at last. But what a small one, Soldier."

"The size doesn't matter, Tollydiggle, my dear. The fact remains that he
is a prisoner," said the soldier. "And, this being the prison, and you
the jailer, it is my duty to place the prisoner in your charge."

"True. Come in, then, and I'll give you a receipt for him."

They entered the house and passed through a hall to a large circular
room, where the woman pulled the robe off from Ojo and looked at him
with kindly interest. The boy, on his part, was gazing around him in
amazement, for never had he dreamed of such a magnificent apartment as
this in which he stood. The roof of the dome was of colored glass,
worked into beautiful designs. The walls were paneled with plates of
gold decorated with gems of great size and many colors, and upon the
tiled floor were soft rugs delightful to walk upon. The furniture was
framed in gold and upholstered in satin brocade and it consisted of easy
chairs, divans and stools in great variety. Also there were several
tables with mirror tops and cabinets filled with rare and curious
things. In one place a case filled with books stood against the wall,
and elsewhere Ojo saw a cupboard containing all sorts of games.

"May I stay here a little while before I go to prison?" asked the boy,
pleadingly.

"Why, this is your prison," replied Tollydiggle, "and in me behold your
jailor. Take off those handcuffs, Soldier, for it is impossible for
anyone to escape from this house."

"I know that very well," replied the soldier and at once unlocked the
handcuffs and released the prisoner.

The woman touched a button on the wall and lighted a big chandelier that
hung suspended from the ceiling, for it was growing dark outside. Then
she seated herself at a desk and asked:

"What name?"

"Ojo the Unlucky," answered the Soldier with the Green Whiskers.

"Unlucky? Ah, that accounts for it," said she. "What crime?"

"Breaking a Law of Oz."

"All right. There's your receipt, Soldier; and now I'm responsible for
the prisoner. I'm glad of it, for this is the first time I've ever had
anything to do, in my official capacity," remarked the jailer, in a
pleased tone.

"It's the same with me, Tollydiggle," laughed the soldier. "But my task
is finished and I must go and report to Ozma that I've done my duty like
a faithful Police Force, a loyal Army and an honest Body-Guard--as I
hope I am."

Saying this, he nodded farewell to Tollydiggle and Ojo and went away.

"Now, then," said the woman briskly, "I must get you some supper, for
you are doubtless hungry. What would you prefer: planked whitefish,
omelet with jelly or mutton-chops with gravy?"

Ojo thought about it. Then he said: "I'll take the chops, if you
please."

"Very well; amuse yourself while I'm gone; I won't be long," and then
she went out by a door and left the prisoner alone.

Ojo was much astonished, for not only was this unlike any prison he had
ever heard of, but he was being treated more as a guest than a criminal.
There were many windows and they had no locks. There were three doors to
the room and none were bolted. He cautiously opened one of the doors and
found it led into a hallway. But he had no intention of trying to
escape. If his jailor was willing to trust him in this way he would not
betray her trust, and moreover a hot supper was being prepared for him
and his prison was very pleasant and comfortable. So he took a book from
the case and sat down in a big chair to look at the pictures.

This amused him until the woman came in with a large tray and spread a
cloth on one of the tables. Then she arranged his supper, which proved
the most varied and delicious meal Ojo had ever eaten in his life.

Tollydiggle sat near him while he ate, sewing on some fancy work she
held in her lap. When he had finished she cleared the table and then
read to him a story from one of the books.

[Illustration]

"Is this really a prison?" he asked, when she had finished reading.

"Indeed it is," she replied. "It is the only prison in the Land of Oz."

"And am I a prisoner?"

"Bless the child! Of course."

"Then why is the prison so fine, and why are you so kind to me?" he
earnestly asked.

Tollydiggle seemed surprised by the question, but she presently
answered:

"We consider a prisoner unfortunate. He is unfortunate in two
ways--because he has done something wrong and because he is deprived of
his liberty. Therefore we should treat him kindly, because of his
misfortune, for otherwise he would become hard and bitter and would not
be sorry he had done wrong. Ozma thinks that one who has committed a
fault did so because he was not strong and brave; therefore she puts him
in prison to make him strong and brave. When that is accomplished he is
no longer a prisoner, but a good and loyal citizen and everyone is glad
that he is now strong enough to resist doing wrong. You see, it is
kindness that makes one strong and brave; and so we are kind to our
prisoners."

Ojo thought this over very carefully. "I had an idea," said he, "that
prisoners were always treated harshly, to punish them."

"That would be dreadful!" cried Tollydiggle. "Isn't one punished enough
in knowing he has done wrong? Don't you wish, Ojo, with all your heart,
that you had not been disobedient and broken a Law of Oz?"

"I--I hate to be different from other people," he admitted.

"Yes; one likes to be respected as highly as his neighbors are," said
the woman. "When you are tried and found guilty, you will be obliged to
make amends, in some way. I don't know just what Ozma will do to you,
because this is the first time one of us has broken a Law; but you may
be sure she will be just and merciful. Here in the Emerald City people
are too happy and contented ever to do wrong; but perhaps you came from
some faraway corner of our land, and having no love for Ozma carelessly
broke one of her Laws."

"Yes," said Ojo, "I've lived all my life in the heart of a lonely
forest, where I saw no one but dear Unc Nunkie."

"I thought so," said Tollydiggle. "But now we have talked enough, so let
us play a game until bedtime."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




PRINCESS DOROTHY

CHAP. 16

[Illustration]


Dorothy Gale was sitting in one of her rooms in the royal palace, while
curled up at her feet was a little black dog with a shaggy coat and very
bright eyes. She wore a plain white frock, without any jewels or other
ornaments except an emerald-green hair-ribbon, for Dorothy was a simple
little girl and had not been in the least spoiled by the magnificence
surrounding her. Once the child had lived on the Kansas prairies, but
she seemed marked for adventure, for she had made several trips to the
Land of Oz before she came to live there for good. Her very best friend
was the beautiful Ozma of Oz, who loved Dorothy so well that she kept
her in her own palace, so as to be near her. The girl's Uncle Henry and
Aunt Em--the only relatives she had in the world--had also been brought
here by Ozma and given a pleasant home. Dorothy knew almost everybody in
Oz, and it was she who had discovered the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman and
the Cowardly Lion, as well as Tik-tok the Clockwork Man. Her life was
very pleasant now, and although she had been made a Princess of Oz by
her friend Ozma she did not care much to be a Princess and remained as
sweet as when she had been plain Dorothy Gale of Kansas.

Dorothy was reading in a book this evening when Jellia Jamb, the
favorite servant-maid of the palace, came to say that the Shaggy Man
wanted to see her.

"All right," said Dorothy; "tell him to come right up."

"But he has some queer creatures with him--some of the queerest I've
ever laid eyes on," reported Jellia.

"Never mind; let 'em all come up," replied Dorothy.

But when the door opened to admit not only the Shaggy Man, but Scraps,
the Woozy and the Glass Cat, Dorothy jumped up and looked at her strange
visitors in amazement. The Patchwork Girl was the most curious of all
and Dorothy was uncertain at first whether Scraps was really alive or
only a dream or a nightmare. Toto, her dog, slowly uncurled himself and
going to the Patchwork Girl sniffed at her inquiringly; but soon he lay
down again, as if to say he had no interest in such an irregular
creation.

"You're a new one to me," Dorothy said reflectively, addressing the
Patchwork Girl. "I can't imagine where you've come from."

"Who, me?" asked Scraps, looking around the pretty room instead of at
the girl. "Oh, I came from a bed-quilt, I guess. That's what they say,
anyhow. Some call it a crazy-quilt and some a patchwork quilt. But my
name is Scraps--and now you know all about me."

[Illustration]

"Not quite all," returned Dorothy with a smile. "I wish you'd tell me
how you came to be alive."

"That's an easy job," said Scraps, sitting upon a big upholstered chair
and making the springs bounce her up and down. "Margolotte wanted a
slave, so she made me out of an old bed-quilt she didn't use. Cotton
stuffing, suspender-button eyes, red velvet tongue, pearl beads for
teeth. The Crooked Magician made a Powder of Life, sprinkled me with it
and--here I am. Perhaps you've noticed my different colors. A very
refined and educated gentleman named the Scarecrow, whom I met, told me
I am the most beautiful creature in all Oz, and I believe it."

"Oh! Have you met our Scarecrow, then?" asked Dorothy, a little puzzled
to understand the brief history related.

"Yes; isn't he jolly?"

"The Scarecrow has many good qualities," replied Dorothy. "But I'm sorry
to hear all this 'bout the Crooked Magician. Ozma'll be mad as hops when
she hears he's been doing magic again. She told him not to."

"He only practices magic for the benefit of his own family," explained
Bungle, who was keeping at a respectful distance from the little black
dog.

"Dear me," said Dorothy; "I hadn't noticed you before. Are you glass, or
what?"

"I'm glass, and transparent, too, which is more than can be said of some
folks," answered the cat. "Also I have some lovely pink brains; you can
see 'em work."

"Oh; is that so? Come over here and let me see."

The Glass Cat hesitated, eyeing the dog.

"Send that beast away and I will," she said.

"Beast! Why, that's my dog Toto, an' he's the kindest dog in all the
world. Toto knows a good many things, too; 'most as much as I do, I
guess."

"Why doesn't he say anything?" asked Bungle.

"He can't talk, not being a fairy dog," explained Dorothy. "He's just a
common United States dog; but that's a good deal; and I understand him,
and he understands me, just as well as if he could talk."

Toto, at this, got up and rubbed his head softly against Dorothy's hand,
which she held out to him, and he looked up into her face as if he had
understood every word she had said.

"This cat, Toto," she said to him, "is made of glass, so you mustn't
bother it, or chase it, any more than you do my Pink Kitten. It's
prob'ly brittle and might break if it bumped against anything."

"Woof!" said Toto, and that meant he understood.

The Glass Cat was so proud of her pink brains that she ventured to come
close to Dorothy, in order that the girl might "see 'em work." This was
really interesting, but when Dorothy patted the cat she found the glass
cold and hard and unresponsive, so she decided at once that Bungle would
never do for a pet.

"What do you know about the Crooked Magician who lives on the mountain?"
asked Dorothy.

"He made me," replied the cat; "so I know all about him. The Patchwork
Girl is new--three or four days old--but I've lived with Dr. Pipt for
years; and, though I don't much care for him, I will say that he has
always refused to work magic for any of the people who come to his
house. He thinks there's no harm in doing magic things for his own
family, and he made me out of glass because the meat cats drink too much
milk. He also made Scraps come to life so she could do the housework for
his wife Margolotte."

"Then why did you both leave him?" asked Dorothy.

"I think you'd better let me explain that," interrupted the Shaggy Man,
and then he told Dorothy all of Ojo's story, and how Unc Nunkie and
Margolotte had accidentally been turned to marble by the Liquid of
Petrifaction. Then he related how the boy had started out in search of
the things needed to make the magic charm, which would restore the
unfortunates to life, and how he had found the Woozy and taken him along
because he could not pull the three hairs out of its tail. Dorothy
listened to all this with much interest, and thought that so far Ojo had
acted very well. But when the Shaggy Man told her of the Munchkin boy's
arrest by the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, because he was accused of
wilfully breaking a Law of Oz, the little girl was greatly shocked.

"What do you s'pose he's done?" she asked.

"I fear he has picked a six-leaved clover," answered the Shaggy Man,
sadly. "I did not see him do it, and I warned him that to do so was
against the Law; but perhaps that is what he did, nevertheless."

"I'm sorry 'bout that," said Dorothy gravely, "for now there will be no
one to help his poor uncle and Margolotte--'cept this Patchwork Girl,
the Woozy and the Glass Cat."

"Don't mention it," said Scraps. "That's no affair of mine. Margolotte
and Unc Nunkie are perfect strangers to me, for the moment I came to
life they came to marble."

"I see," remarked Dorothy with a sigh of regret; "the woman forgot to
give you a heart."

"I'm glad she did," retorted the Patchwork Girl. "A heart must be a
great annoyance to one. It makes a person feel sad or sorry or devoted
or sympathetic--all of which sensations interfere with one's happiness."

"I have a heart," murmured the Glass Cat. "It's made of a ruby; but I
don't imagine I shall let it bother me about helping Unc Nunkie and
Margolotte."

"That's a pretty hard heart of yours," said Dorothy. "And the Woozy, of
course--"

"Why, as for me," observed the Woozy, who was reclining on the floor
with his legs doubled under him, so that he looked much like a square
box, "I have never seen those unfortunate people you are speaking of,
and yet I am sorry for them, having at times been unfortunate myself.
When I was shut up in that forest I longed for some one to help me, and
by and by Ojo came and did help me. So I'm willing to help his uncle.
I'm only a stupid beast, Dorothy, but I can't help that, and if you'll
tell me what to do to help Ojo and his uncle, I'll gladly do it."

Dorothy walked over and patted the Woozy on his square head.

"You're not pretty," she said, "but I like you. What are you able to do;
anything 'special?"

"I can make my eyes flash fire--real fire--when I'm angry. When anyone
says: 'Krizzle-Kroo' to me I get angry, and then my eyes flash fire."

"I don't see as fireworks could help Ojo's uncle," remarked Dorothy.
"Can you do anything else?"

"I--I thought I had a very terrifying growl," said the Woozy, with
hesitation; "but perhaps I was mistaken."

"Yes," said the Shaggy Man, "you were certainly wrong about that." Then
he turned to Dorothy and added: "What will become of the Munchkin boy?"

"I don't know," she said, shaking her head thoughtfully. "Ozma will see
him 'bout it, of course, and then she'll punish him. But how, I don't
know, 'cause no one ever has been punished in Oz since I knew anything
about the place. Too bad, Shaggy Man, isn't it?"

While they were talking Scraps had been roaming around the room and
looking at all the pretty things it contained. She had carried Ojo's
basket in her hand, until now, when she decided to see what was inside
it. She found the bread and cheese, which she had no use for, and the
bundle of charms, which were curious but quite a mystery to her. Then,
turning these over, she came upon the six-leaved clover which the boy
had plucked.

[Illustration]

Scraps was quick-witted, and although she had no heart she recognized
the fact that Ojo was her first friend. She knew at once that because
the boy had taken the clover he had been imprisoned, and she understood
that Ojo had given her the basket so they would not find the clover in
his possession and have proof of his crime. So, turning her head to see
that no one noticed her, she took the clover from the basket and dropped
it into a golden vase that stood on Dorothy's table. Then she came
forward and said to Dorothy:

"I wouldn't care to help Ojo's uncle, but I will help Ojo. He did not
break the Law--no one can prove he did--and that green-whiskered soldier
had no right to arrest him."

"Ozma ordered the boy's arrest," said Dorothy, "and of course she knew
what she was doing. But if you can prove Ojo is innocent they will set
him free at once."

"They'll have to prove him guilty, won't they?" asked Scraps.

"I s'pose so."

"Well, they can't do that," declared the Patchwork Girl.

As it was nearly time for Dorothy to dine with Ozma, which she did
every evening, she rang for a servant and ordered the Woozy taken to a
nice room and given plenty of such food as he liked best.

"That's honey-bees," said the Woozy.

"You can't eat honey-bees, but you'll be given something just as nice,"
Dorothy told him. Then she had the Glass Cat taken to another room for
the night and the Patchwork Girl she kept in one of her own rooms, for
she was much interested in the strange creature and wanted to talk with
her again and try to understand her better.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




OZMA AND HER FRIENDS

CHAP. 17

[Illustration]


The Shaggy Man had a room of his own in the royal palace, so there he
went to change his shaggy suit of clothes for another just as shaggy but
not so dusty from travel. He selected a costume of pea-green and pink
satin and velvet, with embroidered shags on all the edges and iridescent
pearls for ornaments. Then he bathed in an alabaster pool and brushed
his shaggy hair and whiskers the wrong way to make them still more
shaggy. This accomplished, and arrayed in his splendid shaggy garments,
he went to Ozma's banquet hall and found the Scarecrow, the Wizard and
Dorothy already assembled there. The Scarecrow had made a quick trip and
returned to the Emerald City with his left ear freshly painted.

A moment later, while they all stood in waiting, a servant threw open a
door, the orchestra struck up a tune and Ozma of Oz entered.

Much has been told and written concerning the beauty of person and
character of this sweet girl Ruler of the Land of Oz--the richest, the
happiest and most delightful fairyland of which we have any knowledge.
Yet with all her queenly qualities Ozma was a real girl and enjoyed the
things in life that other real girls enjoy. When she sat on her splendid
emerald throne in the great Throne Room of her palace and made laws and
settled disputes and tried to keep all her subjects happy and contented,
she was as dignified and demure as any queen might be; but when she had
thrown aside her jeweled robe of state and her sceptre, and had retired
to her private apartments, the girl--joyous, light-hearted and
free--replaced the sedate Ruler.

In the banquet hall to-night were gathered only old and trusted friends,
so here Ozma was herself--a mere girl. She greeted Dorothy with a kiss,
the Shaggy Man with a smile, the little old Wizard with a friendly
handshake and then she pressed the Scarecrow's stuffed arm and cried
merrily:

"What a lovely left ear! Why, it's a hundred times better than the old
one."

"I'm glad you like it," replied the Scarecrow, well pleased. "Jinjur did
a neat job, didn't she? And my hearing is now perfect. Isn't it
wonderful what a little paint will do, if it's properly applied?"

"It really _is_ wonderful," she agreed, as they all took their seats;
"but the Sawhorse must have made his legs twinkle to have carried you so
far in one day. I didn't expect you back before to-morrow, at the
earliest."

"Well," said the Scarecrow, "I met a charming girl on the road and
wanted to see more of her, so I hurried back."

Ozma laughed.

"I know," she returned; "it's the Patchwork Girl. She is certainly
bewildering, if not strictly beautiful."

"Have you seen her, then?" the straw man eagerly asked.

"Only in my Magic Picture, which shows me all scenes of interest in the
Land of Oz."

"I fear the picture didn't do her justice," said the Scarecrow.

"It seemed to me that nothing could be more gorgeous," declared Ozma.
"Whoever made that patchwork quilt, from which Scraps was formed, must
have selected the gayest and brightest bits of cloth that ever were
woven."

"I am glad you like her," said the Scarecrow in a satisfied tone.
Although the straw man did not eat, not being made so he could, he often
dined with Ozma and her companions, merely for the pleasure of talking
with them. He sat at the table and had a napkin and plate, but the
servants knew better than to offer him food. After a little while he
asked: "Where is the Patchwork Girl now?"

"In my room," replied Dorothy. "I've taken a fancy to her; she's so
queer and--and--uncommon."

"She's half crazy, I think," added the Shaggy Man.

"But she is so beautiful!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, as if that fact
disarmed all criticism. They all laughed at his enthusiasm, but the
Scarecrow was quite serious. Seeing that he was interested in Scraps
they forbore to say anything against her. The little band of friends
Ozma had gathered around her was so quaintly assorted that much care
must be exercised to avoid hurting their feelings or making any one of
them unhappy. It was this considerate kindness that held them close
friends and enabled them to enjoy one another's society.

[Illustration]

Another thing they avoided was conversing on unpleasant subjects, and
for that reason Ojo and his troubles were not mentioned during the
dinner. The Shaggy Man, however, related his adventures with the
monstrous plants which had seized and enfolded the travelers, and told
how he had robbed Chiss, the giant porcupine, of the quills which it was
accustomed to throw at people. Both Dorothy and Ozma were pleased with
this exploit and thought it served Chiss right.

Then they talked of the Woozy, which was the most remarkable animal any
of them had ever before seen--except, perhaps, the live Sawhorse. Ozma
had never known that her dominions contained such a thing as a Woozy,
there being but one in existence and this being confined in his forest
for many years. Dorothy said she believed the Woozy was a good beast,
honest and faithful; but she added that she did not care much for the
Glass Cat.

"Still," said the Shaggy Man, "the Glass Cat is very pretty and if she
were not so conceited over her pink brains no one would object to her as
a companion."

The Wizard had been eating silently until now, when he looked up and
remarked:

"That Powder of Life which is made by the Crooked Magician is really a
wonderful thing. But Dr. Pipt does not know its true value and he uses
it in the most foolish ways."

"I must see about that," said Ozma, gravely. Then she smiled again and
continued in a lighter tone: "It was Dr. Pipt's famous Powder of Life
that enabled me to become the Ruler of Oz."

"I've never heard that story," said the Shaggy Man, looking at Ozma
questioningly.

"Well, when I was a baby girl I was stolen by an old Witch named Mombi
and transformed into a boy," began the girl Ruler. "I did not know who I
was and when I grew big enough to work, the Witch made me wait upon her
and carry wood for the fire and hoe in the garden. One day she came back
from a journey bringing some of the Powder of Life, which Dr. Pipt had
given her. I had made a pumpkin-headed man and set it up in her path to
frighten her, for I was fond of fun and hated the Witch. But she knew
what the figure was and to test her Powder of Life she sprinkled some of
it on the man I had made. It came to life and is now our dear friend
Jack Pumpkinhead. That night I ran away with Jack to escape punishment,
and I took old Mombi's Powder of Life with me. During our journey we
came upon a wooden Sawhorse standing by the road and I used the magic
powder to bring it to life. The Sawhorse has been with me ever since.
When I got to the Emerald City the good Sorceress, Glinda, knew who I
was and restored me to my proper person, when I became the rightful
Ruler of this land. So you see had not old Mombi brought home the Powder
of Life I might never have run away from her and become Ozma of Oz, nor
would we have had Jack Pumpkinhead and the Sawhorse to comfort and amuse
us."

That story interested the Shaggy Man very much, as well as the others,
who had often heard it before. The dinner being now concluded, they all
went to Ozma's drawing-room, where they passed a pleasant evening before
it came time to retire.

[Illustration: GLINDA]




[Illustration]




OJO IS FORGIVEN

CHAP. 18

[Illustration]


The next morning the Soldier with the Green Whiskers went to the prison
and took Ojo away to the royal palace, where he was summoned to appear
before the girl Ruler for judgment. Again the soldier put upon the boy
the jeweled handcuffs and white prisoner's robe with the peaked top and
holes for the eyes. Ojo was so ashamed, both of his disgrace and the
fault he had committed, that he was glad to be covered up in this way,
so that people could not see him or know who he was. He followed the
Soldier with the Green Whiskers very willingly, anxious that his fate
might be decided as soon as possible.

The inhabitants of the Emerald City were polite people and never jeered
at the unfortunate; but it was so long since they had seen a prisoner
that they cast many curious looks toward the boy and many of them
hurried away to the royal palace to be present during the trial.

When Ojo was escorted into the great Throne Room of the palace he found
hundreds of people assembled there. In the magnificent emerald throne,
which sparkled with countless jewels, sat Ozma of Oz in her Robe of
State, which was embroidered with emeralds and pearls. On her right, but
a little lower, was Dorothy, and on her left the Scarecrow. Still lower,
but nearly in front of Ozma, sat the wonderful Wizard of Oz and on a
small table beside him was the golden vase from Dorothy's room, into
which Scraps had dropped the stolen clover.

At Ozma's feet crouched two enormous beasts, each the largest and most
powerful of its kind. Although these beasts were quite free, no one
present was alarmed by them; for the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger
were well known and respected in the Emerald City and they always
guarded the Ruler when she held high court in the Throne Room. There was
still another beast present, but this one Dorothy held in her arms, for
it was her constant companion, the little dog Toto. Toto knew the
Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger and often played and romped with
them, for they were good friends.

Seated on ivory chairs before Ozma, with a clear space between them and
the throne, were many of the nobility of the Emerald City, lords and
ladies in beautiful costumes, and officials of the kingdom in the royal
uniforms of Oz. Behind these courtiers were others of less importance,
filling the great hall to the very doors.

At the same moment that the Soldier with the Green Whiskers arrived with
Ojo, the Shaggy Man entered from a side door, escorting the Patchwork
Girl, the Woozy and the Glass Cat. All these came to the vacant space
before the throne and stood facing the Ruler.

"Hullo, Ojo," said Scraps; "how are you?"

"All right," he replied; but the scene awed the boy and his voice
trembled a little with fear. Nothing could awe the Patchwork Girl, and
although the Woozy was somewhat uneasy in these splendid surroundings
the Glass Cat was delighted with the sumptuousness of the court and the
impressiveness of the occasion--pretty big words but quite expressive.

At a sign from Ozma the soldier removed Ojo's white robe and the boy
stood face to face with the girl who was to decide his punishment. He
saw at a glance how lovely and sweet she was, and his heart gave a bound
of joy, for he hoped she would be merciful.

Ozma sat looking at the prisoner a long time. Then she said gently:

"One of the Laws of Oz forbids anyone to pick a six-leaved clover. You
are accused of having broken this Law, even after you had been warned
not to do so."

[Illustration: "_I demand that you set this poor Munchkin Boy free_"]

Ojo hung his head and while he hesitated how to reply the Patchwork Girl
stepped forward and spoke for him.

"All this fuss is about nothing at all," she said, facing Ozma
unabashed. "You can't prove he picked the six-leaved clover, so you've
no right to accuse him of it. Search him, if you like, but you won't
find the clover; look in his basket and you'll find it's not there. He
hasn't got it, so I demand that you set this poor Munchkin boy free."

The people of Oz listened to this defiance in amazement and wondered at
the queer Patchwork Girl who dared talk so boldly to their Ruler. But
Ozma sat silent and motionless and it was the little Wizard who answered
Scraps.

"So the clover hasn't been picked, eh?" he said. "I think it has. I
think the boy hid it in his basket, and then gave the basket to you. I
also think you dropped the clover into this vase, which stood in
Princess Dorothy's room, hoping to get rid of it so it would not prove
the boy guilty. You're a stranger here, Miss Patches, and so you don't
know that nothing can be hidden from our powerful Ruler's Magic
Picture--nor from the watchful eyes of the humble Wizard of Oz. Look,
all of you!" With these words he waved his hands toward the vase on the
table, which Scraps now noticed for the first time.

From the mouth of the vase a plant sprouted, slowly growing before their
eyes until it became a beautiful bush, and on the topmost branch
appeared the six-leaved clover which Ojo had unfortunately picked.

The Patchwork Girl looked at the clover and said: "Oh, so you've found
it. Very well; prove he picked it, if you can."

Ozma turned to Ojo.

"Did you pick the six-leaved clover?" she asked.

"Yes," he replied. "I knew it was against the Law, but I wanted to save
Unc Nunkie and I was afraid if I asked your consent to pick it you would
refuse me."

"What caused you to think that?" asked the Ruler.

"Why, it seemed to me a foolish law, unjust and unreasonable. Even now I
can see no harm in picking a six-leaved clover. And I--I had not seen
the Emerald City, then, nor you, and I thought a girl who would make
such a silly Law would not be likely to help anyone in trouble."

Ozma regarded him musingly, her chin resting upon her hand; but she was
not angry. On the contrary she smiled a little at her thoughts and then
grew sober again.

"I suppose a good many laws seem foolish to those people who do not
understand them," she said; "but no law is ever made without some
purpose, and that purpose is usually to protect all the people and guard
their welfare. As you are a stranger, I will explain this Law which to
you seems so foolish. Years ago there were many Witches and Magicians in
the Land of Oz, and one of the things they often used in making their
magic charms and transformations was a six-leaved clover. These Witches
and Magicians caused so much trouble among my people, often using their
powers for evil rather than good, that I decided to forbid anyone to
practice magic or sorcery except Glinda the Good and her assistant, the
Wizard of Oz, both of whom I can trust to use their arts only to benefit
my people and to make them happier. Since I issued that Law the Land of
Oz has been far more peaceful and quiet; but I learned that some of the
Witches and Magicians were still practicing magic on the sly and using
the six-leaved clovers to make their potions and charms. Therefore I
made another Law forbidding anyone from plucking a six-leaved clover or
from gathering other plants and herbs which the Witches boil in their
kettles to work magic with. That has almost put an end to wicked sorcery
in our land, so you see the Law was not a foolish one, but wise and
just; and, in any event, it is wrong to disobey a Law."

Ojo knew she was right and felt greatly mortified to realize he had
acted and spoken so ridiculously. But he raised his head and looked Ozma
in the face, saying:

"I am sorry I have acted wrongly and broken your Law. I did it to save
Unc Nunkie, and thought I would not be found out. But I am guilty of
this act and whatever punishment you think I deserve I will suffer
willingly."

Ozma smiled more brightly, then, and nodded graciously.

"You are forgiven," she said. "For, although you have committed a
serious fault, you are now penitent and I think you have been punished
enough. Soldier, release Ojo the Lucky and--"

"I beg your pardon; I'm Ojo the _Un_lucky," said the boy.

"At this moment you are lucky," said she. "Release him, Soldier, and let
him go free."

The people were glad to hear Ozma's decree and murmured their approval.
As the royal audience was now over, they began to leave the Throne Room
and soon there were none remaining except Ojo and his friends and Ozma
and her favorites.

The girl Ruler now asked Ojo to sit down and tell her all his story,
which he did, beginning at the time he had left his home in the forest
and ending with his arrival at the Emerald City and his arrest. Ozma
listened attentively and was thoughtful for some moments after the boy
had finished speaking. Then she said:

"The Crooked Magician was wrong to make the Glass Cat and the Patchwork
Girl, for it was against the Law. And if he had not unlawfully kept the
bottle of Liquid of Petrifaction standing on his shelf, the accident to
his wife Margolotte and to Unc Nunkie could not have occurred. I can
understand, however, that Ojo, who loves his uncle, will be unhappy
unless he can save him. Also I feel it is wrong to leave those two
victims standing as marble statues, when they ought to be alive. So I
propose we allow Dr. Pipt to make the magic charm which will save them,
and that we assist Ojo to find the things he is seeking. What do you
think, Wizard?"

"That is perhaps the best thing to do," replied the Wizard. "But after
the Crooked Magician has restored those poor people to life you must
take away his magic powers."

"I will," promised Ozma.

"Now tell me, please, what magic things must you find?" continued the
Wizard, addressing Ojo.

"The three hairs from the Woozy's tail I have," said the boy. "That is,
I have the Woozy, and the hairs are in his tail. The six-leaved clover
I--I--"

"You may take it and keep it," said Ozma. "That will not be breaking the
Law, for it is already picked, and the crime of picking it is forgiven."

"Thank you!" cried Ojo gratefully. Then he continued: "The next thing I
must find is a gill of water from a dark well."

The Wizard shook his head. "That," said he, "will be a hard task, but if
you travel far enough you may discover it."

"I am willing to travel for years, if it will save Unc Nunkie," declared
Ojo, earnestly.

"Then you'd better begin your journey at once," advised the Wizard.

Dorothy had been listening with interest to this conversation. Now she
turned to Ozma and asked: "May I go with Ojo, to help him?"

"Would you like to?" returned Ozma.

"Yes. I know Oz pretty well, but Ojo doesn't know it at all. I'm sorry
for his uncle and poor Margolotte and I'd like to help save them. May I
go?"

"If you wish to," replied Ozma.

"If Dorothy goes, then I must go to take care of her," said the
Scarecrow, decidedly. "A dark well can only be discovered in some
out-of-the-way place, and there may be dangers there."

"You have my permission to accompany Dorothy," said Ozma. "And while you
are gone I will take care of the Patchwork Girl."

"I'll take care of myself," announced Scraps, "for I'm going with the
Scarecrow and Dorothy. I promised Ojo to help him find the things he
wants and I'll stick to my promise."

"Very well," replied Ozma. "But I see no need for Ojo to take the Glass
Cat and the Woozy."

"I prefer to remain here," said the cat. "I've nearly been nicked half a
dozen times, already, and if they're going into dangers it's best for me
to keep away from them."

"Let Jellia Jamb keep her till Ojo returns," suggested Dorothy. "We
won't need to take the Woozy, either, but he ought to be saved because
of the three hairs in his tail."

"Better take me along," said the Woozy. "My eyes can flash fire, you
know, and I can growl--a little."

"I'm sure you'll be safer here," Ozma decided, and the Woozy made no
further objection to the plan.

After consulting together they decided that Ojo and his party should
leave the very next day to search for the gill of water from a dark
well, so they now separated to make preparations for the journey.

Ozma gave the Munchkin boy a room in the palace for that night and the
afternoon he passed with Dorothy--getting acquainted, as she said--and
receiving advice from the Shaggy Man as to where they must go. The
Shaggy Man had wandered in many parts of Oz, and so had Dorothy, for
that matter, yet neither of them knew where a dark well was to be found.

"If such a thing is anywhere in the settled parts of Oz," said Dorothy,
"we'd prob'ly have heard of it long ago. If it's in the wild parts of
the country, no one there would need a dark well. P'raps there isn't
such a thing."

"Oh, there must be!" returned Ojo, positively; "or else the recipe of
Dr. Pipt wouldn't call for it."

"That's true," agreed Dorothy; "and, if it's anywhere in the Land of Oz,
we're bound to find it."

"Well, we're bound to _search_ for it, anyhow," said the Scarecrow. "As
for finding it, we must trust to luck."

"Don't do that," begged Ojo, earnestly. "I'm called Ojo the Unlucky, you
know."

[Illustration]




TROUBLE WITH THE TOTTENHOTS

CHAP. 19

[Illustration]


A day's journey from the Emerald City brought the little band of
adventurers to the home of Jack Pumpkinhead, which was a house formed
from the shell of an immense pumpkin. Jack had made it himself and was
very proud of it. There was a door, and several windows, and through the
top was stuck a stovepipe that led from a small stove inside. The door
was reached by a flight of three steps and there was a good floor on
which was arranged some furniture that was quite comfortable.

It is certain that Jack Pumpkinhead might have had a much finer house to
live in had he wanted it, for Ozma loved the stupid fellow, who had been
her earliest companion; but Jack preferred his pumpkin house, as it
matched himself very well, and in this he was not so stupid, after all.

The body of this remarkable person was made of wood, branches of trees
of various sizes having been used for the purpose. This wooden framework
was covered by a red shirt--with white spots in it--blue trousers, a
yellow vest, a jacket of green-and-gold and stout leather shoes. The
neck was a sharpened stick on which the pumpkin head was set, and the
eyes, ears, nose and mouth were carved on the skin of the pumpkin, very
like a child's jack-o'-lantern.

[Illustration]

The house of this interesting creation stood in the center of a vast
pumpkin-field, where the vines grew in profusion and bore pumpkins of
extraordinary size as well as those which were smaller. Some of the
pumpkins now ripening on the vines were almost as large as Jack's house,
and he told Dorothy he intended to add another pumpkin to his mansion.

The travelers were cordially welcomed to this quaint domicile and
invited to pass the night there, which they had planned to do. The
Patchwork Girl was greatly interested in Jack and examined him
admiringly.

"You are quite handsome," she said; "but not as really beautiful as the
Scarecrow."

Jack turned, at this, to examine the Scarecrow critically, and his old
friend slyly winked one painted eye at him.

[Illustration]

"There is no accounting for tastes," remarked the Pumpkinhead, with a
sigh. "An old crow once told me I was very fascinating, but of course
the bird might have been mistaken. Yet I have noticed that the crows
usually avoid the Scarecrow, who is a very honest fellow, in his way,
but stuffed. I am not stuffed, you will observe; my body is good solid
hickory."

"I adore stuffing," said the Patchwork Girl.

"Well, as for that, my head is stuffed with pumpkin-seeds," declared
Jack. "I use them for brains, and when they are fresh I am intellectual.
Just now, I regret to say, my seeds are rattling a bit, so I must soon
get another head."

"Oh; do you change your head?" asked Ojo.

"To be sure. Pumpkins are not permanent, more's the pity, and in time
they spoil. That is why I grow such a great field of pumpkins--that I
may select a new head whenever necessary."

"Who carves the faces on them?" inquired the boy.

"I do that myself. I lift off my old head, place it on a table before
me, and use the face for a pattern to go by. Sometimes the faces I carve
are better than others--more expressive and cheerful, you know--but I
think they average very well."

Before she had started on the journey Dorothy had packed a knapsack with
the things she might need, and this knapsack the Scarecrow carried
strapped to his back. The little girl wore a plain gingham dress and a
checked sunbonnet, as she knew they were best fitted for travel. Ojo
also had brought along his basket, to which Ozma had added a bottle of
"Square Meal Tablets" and some fruit. But Jack Pumpkinhead grew a lot of
things in his garden besides pumpkins, so he cooked for them a fine
vegetable soup and gave Dorothy, Ojo and Toto, the only ones who found
it necessary to eat, a pumpkin pie and some green cheese. For beds they
must use the sweet dried grasses which Jack had strewn along one side of
the room, but that satisfied Dorothy and Ojo very well. Toto, of course,
slept beside his little mistress.

The Scarecrow, Scraps and the Pumpkinhead were tireless and had no need
to sleep, so they sat up and talked together all night; but they stayed
outside the house, under the bright stars, and talked in low tones so as
not to disturb the sleepers. During the conversation the Scarecrow
explained their quest for a dark well, and asked Jack's advice where to
find it.

The Pumpkinhead considered the matter gravely.

"That is going to be a difficult task," said he, "and if I were you I'd
take any ordinary well and enclose it, so as to make it dark."

"I fear that wouldn't do," replied the Scarecrow. "The well must be
naturally dark, and the water must never have seen the light of day, for
otherwise the magic charm might not work at all."

"How much of the water do you need?" asked Jack.

"A gill."

"How much is a gill?"

"Why--a gill is a gill, of course," answered the Scarecrow, who did not
wish to display his ignorance.

"I know!" cried Scraps. "Jack and Jill went up the hill to fetch--"

"No, no; that's wrong," interrupted the Scarecrow. "There are two kinds
of gills, I think; one is a girl, and the other is--"

"A gillyflower," said Jack.

"No; a measure."

"How big a measure?"

"Well, I'll ask Dorothy."

So next morning they asked Dorothy, and she said:

"I don't just know how much a gill is, but I've brought along a gold
flask that holds a pint. That's more than a gill, I'm sure, and the
Crooked Magician may measure it to suit himself. But the thing that's
bothering us most, Jack, is to find the well."

Jack gazed around the landscape, for he was standing in the doorway of
his house.

"This is a flat country, so you won't find any dark wells here," said
he. "You must go into the mountains, where rocks and caverns are."

"And where is that?" asked Ojo.

"In the Quadling Country, which lies south of here," replied the
Scarecrow. "I've known all along that we must go to the mountains."

"So have I," said Dorothy.

"But--goodness me!--the Quadling Country is full of dangers," declared
Jack. "I've never been there myself, but--"

"I have," said the Scarecrow. "I've faced the dreadful Hammerheads,
which have no arms and butt you like a goat; and I've faced the Fighting
Trees, which bend down their branches to pound and whip you, and had
many other adventures there."

"It's a wild country," remarked Dorothy, soberly, "and if we go there
we're sure to have troubles of our own. But I guess we'll have to go, if
we want that gill of water from the dark well."

So they said good-bye to the Pumpkinhead and resumed their travels,
heading now directly toward the South Country, where mountains and rocks
and caverns and forests of great trees abounded. This part of the Land
of Oz, while it belonged to Ozma and owed her allegiance, was so wild
and secluded that many queer peoples hid in its jungles and lived in
their own way, without even a knowledge that they had a Ruler in the
Emerald City. If they were left alone, these creatures never troubled
the inhabitants of the rest of Oz, but those who invaded their domains
encountered many dangers from them.

It was a two days' journey from Jack Pumpkinhead's house to the edge of
the Quadling Country, for neither Dorothy nor Ojo could walk very fast
and they often stopped by the wayside to rest. The first night they
slept on the broad fields, among the buttercups and daisies, and the
Scarecrow covered the children with a gauze blanket taken from his
knapsack, so they would not be chilled by the night air. Toward evening
of the second day they reached a sandy plain where walking was
difficult; but some distance before them they saw a group of palm trees,
with many curious black dots under them; so they trudged bravely on to
reach that place by dark and spend the night under the shelter of the
trees.

[Illustration]

The black dots grew larger as they advanced and although the light was
dim Dorothy thought they looked like big kettles turned upside down.
Just beyond this place a jumble of huge, jagged rocks lay scattered,
rising to the mountains behind them.

Our travelers preferred to attempt to climb these rocks by daylight, and
they realized that for a time this would be their last night on the
plains.

[Illustration]

Twilight had fallen by the time they came to the trees, beneath
which were the black, circular objects they had marked from a
distance. Dozens of them were scattered around and Dorothy bent near
to one, which was about as tall as she was, to examine it more
closely. As she did so the top flew open and out popped a small
creature, rising its length into the air and then plumping down upon
the ground just beside the little girl. Another and another popped
out of the circular, pot-like dwelling, while from all the other
black objects came popping more creatures--very like jumping-jacks
when their boxes are unhooked--until fully a hundred stood gathered
around our little group of travelers.

By this time Dorothy had discovered they were people, tiny and curiously
formed, but still people. Their hair stood straight up, like wires, and
was brilliant scarlet in color. Their bodies were bare except for skins
fastened around their waists and they wore bracelets on their ankles and
wrists, and necklaces, and great pendant earrings.

Toto crouched beside his mistress and wailed as if he did not like these
strange creatures a bit. Scraps began to mutter something about
"hoppity, poppity, jumpity, dump!" but no one paid any attention to her.
Ojo kept close to the Scarecrow and the Scarecrow kept close to Dorothy;
but the little girl turned to the queer creatures and asked:

"Who are you?"

They answered this question all together, in a sort of chanting chorus,
the words being as follows:

    "We're the jolly Tottenhots;
    We do not like the day,
    But in the night 'tis our delight
    To gambol, skip and play.

    "We hate the sun and from it run,
    The moon is cool and clear,
    So on this spot each Tottenhot
    Waits for it to appear.

    "We're ev'ry one chock full of fun,
    And full of mischief, too;
    But if you're gay and with us play
    We'll do no harm to you."

"Glad to meet you, Tottenhots," said the Scarecrow solemnly. "But you
mustn't expect us to play with you all night, for we've traveled all
day and some of us are tired."

"And we never gamble," added the Patchwork Girl. "It's against the Law."

These remarks were greeted with shouts of laughter by the impish
creatures and one seized the Scarecrow's arm and was astonished to find
the straw man whirl around so easily. So the Tottenhot raised the
Scarecrow high in the air and tossed him over the heads of the crowd.
Some one caught him and tossed him back, and so with shouts of glee they
continued throwing the Scarecrow here and there, as if he had been a
basket-ball.

Presently another imp seized Scraps and began to throw her about, in the
same way. They found her a little heavier than the Scarecrow but still
light enough to be tossed like a sofa-cushion, and they were enjoying
the sport immensely when Dorothy, angry and indignant at the treatment
her friends were receiving, rushed among the Tottenhots and began
slapping and pushing them, until she had rescued the Scarecrow and the
Patchwork Girl and held them close on either side of her. Perhaps she
would not have accomplished this victory so easily had not Toto helped
her, barking and snapping at the bare legs of the imps until they were
glad to flee from his attack. As for Ojo, some of the creatures had
attempted to toss him, also, but finding his body too heavy they threw
him to the ground and a row of the imps sat on him and held him from
assisting Dorothy in her battle.

The little folks were much surprised at being attacked by the girl and
the dog, and one or two who had been slapped hardest began to cry. Then
suddenly they gave a shout, all together, and disappeared in a flash
into their various houses, the tops of which closed with a series of
pops that sounded like a bunch of firecrackers being exploded.

The adventurers now found themselves alone, and Dorothy asked anxiously:

"Is anybody hurt?"

"Not me," answered the Scarecrow. "They have given my straw a good
shaking up and taken all the lumps out of it. I am now in splendid
condition and am really obliged to the Tottenhots for their kind
treatment."

"I feel much the same way," said Scraps. "My cotton stuffing had sagged
a good deal with the day's walking and they've loosened it up until I
feel as plump as a sausage. But the play was a little rough and I'd had
quite enough of it when you interfered."

[Illustration]

"Six of them sat on me," said Ojo, "but as they are so little they
didn't hurt me much."

Just then the roof of the house in front of them opened and a Tottenhot
stuck his head out, very cautiously, and looked at the strangers.

"Can't you take a joke?" he asked, reproachfully; "haven't you any fun
in you at all?"

"If I had such a quality," replied the Scarecrow, "your people would
have knocked it out of me. But I don't bear grudges. I forgive you."

"So do I," added Scraps. "That is, if you behave yourselves after this."

"It was just a little rough-house, that's all," said the Tottenhot. "But
the question is not if _we_ will behave, but if _you_ will behave? We
can't be shut up here all night, because this is our time to play; nor
do we care to come out and be chewed up by a savage beast or slapped by
an angry girl. That slapping hurts like sixty; some of my folks are
crying about it. So here's the proposition: you let us alone and we'll
let you alone."

"You began it," declared Dorothy.

"Well, you ended it, so we won't argue the matter. May we come out
again? Or are you still cruel and slappy?"

"Tell you what we'll do," said Dorothy. "We're all tired and want to
sleep until morning. If you'll let us get into your house, and stay
there until daylight, you can play outside all you want to."

"That's a bargain!" cried the Tottenhot eagerly, and he gave a queer
whistle that brought his people popping out of their houses on all
sides. When the house before them was vacant, Dorothy and Ojo leaned
over the hole and looked in, but could see nothing because it was so
dark. But if the Tottenhots slept there all day the children thought
they could sleep there at night, so Ojo lowered himself down and found
it was not very deep.

"There's a soft cushion all over," said he. "Come on in."

Dorothy handed Toto to the boy and then climbed in herself. After her
came Scraps and the Scarecrow, who did not wish to sleep but preferred
to keep out of the way of the mischievous Tottenhots.

There seemed no furniture in the round den, but soft cushions were
strewn about the floor and these they found made very comfortable beds.
They did not close the hole in the roof but left it open to admit air.
It also admitted the shouts and ceaseless laughter of the impish
Tottenhots as they played outside, but Dorothy and Ojo, being weary from
their journey, were soon fast asleep.

[Illustration]

Toto kept an eye open, however, and uttered low, threatening growls
whenever the racket made by the creatures outside became too boisterous;
and the Scarecrow and the Patchwork Girl sat leaning against the wall
and talked in whispers all night long. No one disturbed the travelers
until daylight, when in popped the Tottenhot who owned the place and
invited them to vacate his premises.

[Illustration]




[Illustration: LOOK OUT FOR YOOP]




THE CAPTIVE YOOP

CHAP. 20

[Illustration]


As they were preparing to leave, Dorothy asked: "Can you tell us where
there is a dark well?"

"Never heard of such a thing," said the Tottenhot. "We live our lives in
the dark, mostly, and sleep in the daytime; but we've never seen a dark
well, or anything like one."

"Does anyone live on those mountains beyond here?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Lots of people. But you'd better not visit them. We never go there."
was the reply.

"What are the people like?" Dorothy inquired.

"Can't say. We've been told to keep away from the mountain paths, and so
we obey. This sandy desert is good enough for us, and we're not
disturbed here," declared the Tottenhot.

So they left the man snuggling down to sleep in his dusky dwelling, and
went out into the sunshine, taking the path that led toward the rocky
places. They soon found it hard climbing, for the rocks were uneven and
full of sharp points and edges, and now there was no path at all.
Clambering here and there among the boulders they kept steadily on,
gradually rising higher and higher until finally they came to a great
rift in a part of the mountain, where the rock seemed to have split in
two and left high walls on either side.

"S'pose we go this way," suggested Dorothy; "it's much easier walking
than to climb over the hills."

"How about that sign?" asked Ojo.

"What sign?" she inquired.

The Munchkin boy pointed to some words painted on the wall of rock
beside them, which Dorothy had not noticed. The words read:

    "LOOK OUT FOR YOOP."

The girl eyed this sign a moment and then turned to the Scarecrow,
asking:

"Who is Yoop; or what is Yoop?"

The straw man shook his head. Then she looked at Toto and the dog said
"Woof!"

"Only way to find out is to go on," said Scraps.

This being quite true, they went on. As they proceeded, the walls of
rock on either side grew higher and higher. Presently they came upon
another sign which read:

    "BEWARE THE CAPTIVE YOOP."

"Why, as for that," remarked Dorothy, "if Yoop is a captive there's no
need to beware of him. Whatever Yoop happens to be, I'd much rather have
him a captive than running around loose."

"So had I," agreed the Scarecrow, with a nod of his painted head.

"Still," said Scraps, reflectively:

    "Yoop-te-hoop-te-loop-te-goop!
    Who put noodles in the soup?
    We may beware but we don't care,
    And dare go where we scare the Yoop."

"Dear me! Aren't you feeling a little queer, just now?" Dorothy asked
the Patchwork Girl.

"Not queer, but crazy," said Ojo. "When she says those things I'm sure
her brains get mixed somehow and work the wrong way."

"I don't see why we are told to beware the Yoop unless he is dangerous,"
observed the Scarecrow in a puzzled tone.

"Never mind; we'll find out all about him when we get to where he is,"
replied the little girl.

The narrow canyon turned and twisted this way and that, and the rift was
so small that they were able to touch both walls at the same time by
stretching out their arms. Toto had run on ahead, frisking playfully,
when suddenly he uttered a sharp bark of fear and came running back to
them with his tail between his legs, as dogs do when they are
frightened.

"Ah," said the Scarecrow, who was leading the way, "we must be near
Yoop."

Just then, as he rounded a sharp turn, the straw man stopped so suddenly
that all the others bumped against him.

"What is it?" asked Dorothy, standing on tip-toes to look over his
shoulder. But then she saw what it was and cried "Oh!" in a tone of
astonishment.

In one of the rock walls--that at their left--was hollowed a great
cavern, in front of which was a row of thick iron bars, the tops and
bottoms being firmly fixed in the solid rock. Over this cavern was a big
sign, which Dorothy read with much curiosity, speaking the words aloud
that all might know what they said:

    "MISTER YOOP--HIS CAVE

    The Largest Untamed Giant in Captivity.

        _Height, 21 Feet._--(And yet he has but 2 feet.)

        _Weight, 1640 Pounds._--(But he waits all the time.)

        _Age, 400 Years 'and Up'_ (as they say in the Department
            Store advertisements).

        _Temper, Fierce and Ferocious._--(Except when asleep.)

        _Appetite, Ravenous._--(Prefers Meat People and Orange
            Marmalade.)

    STRANGERS APPROACHING THIS CAVE DO SO AT THEIR OWN PERIL!

    _P. S.--Don't feed the Giant yourself._"

[Illustration]

"Very well," said Ojo, with a sigh; "let's go back."

"It's a long way back," declared Dorothy.

"So it is," remarked the Scarecrow, "and it means a tedious climb over
those sharp rocks if we can't use this passage. I think it will be best
to run by the Giant's cave as fast as we can go. Mister Yoop seems to be
asleep just now."

But the Giant wasn't asleep. He suddenly appeared at the front of his
cavern, seized the iron bars in his great hairy hands and shook them
until they rattled in their sockets. Yoop was so tall that our friends
had to tip their heads way back to look into his face, and they noticed
he was dressed all in pink velvet, with silver buttons and braid. The
Giant's boots were of pink leather and had tassels on them and his hat
was decorated with an enormous pink ostrich feather, carefully curled.

"Yo-ho!" he said in a deep bass voice; "I smell dinner."

"I think you are mistaken," replied the Scarecrow. "There is no orange
marmalade around here."

"Ah, but I eat other things," asserted Mister Yoop. "That is, I eat them
when I can get them. But this is a lonely place, and no good meat has
passed by my cave for many years; so I'm hungry."

"Haven't you eaten anything in many years?" asked Dorothy.

"Nothing except six ants and a monkey. I thought the monkey would taste
like meat people, but the flavor was different. I hope you will taste
better, for you seem plump and tender."

"Oh, I'm not going to be eaten," said Dorothy.

"Why not?"

"I shall keep out of your way," she answered.

"How heartless!" wailed the Giant, shaking the bars again. "Consider how
many years it is since I've eaten a single plump little girl! They tell
me meat is going up, but if I can manage to catch you I'm sure it will
soon be going down. And I'll catch you if I can."

With this the Giant pushed his big arms, which looked like tree-trunks
(except that tree-trunks don't wear pink velvet) between the iron bars,
and the arms were so long that they touched the opposite wall of the
rock passage. Then he extended them as far as he could reach toward our
travelers and found he could almost touch the Scarecrow--but not quite.

"Come a little nearer, please," begged the Giant.

"I'm a Scarecrow."

"A Scarecrow? Ugh! I don't care a straw for a scarecrow. Who is that
bright-colored delicacy behind you?"

"Me?" asked Scraps. "I'm a Patchwork Girl, and I'm stuffed with cotton."

"Dear me," sighed the Giant in a disappointed tone; "that reduces my
dinner from four to two--and the dog. I'll save the dog for dessert."

Toto growled, keeping a good distance away.

"Back up," said the Scarecrow to those behind him. "Let us go back a
little way and talk this over."

So they turned and went around the bend in the passage, where they were
out of sight of the cave and Mister Yoop could not hear them.

"My idea," began the Scarecrow, when they had halted, "is to make a dash
past the cave, going on a run."

"He'd grab us," said Dorothy.

"Well, he can't grab but one at a time, and I'll go first. As soon as he
grabs me the rest of you can slip past him, out of his reach, and he
will soon let me go because I am not fit to eat."

They decided to try this plan and Dorothy took Toto in her arms, so as
to protect him. She followed just after the Scarecrow. Then came Ojo,
with Scraps the last of the four. Their hearts beat a little faster than
usual as they again approached the Giant's cave, this time moving
swiftly forward.

It turned out about the way the Scarecrow had planned. Mister Yoop was
quite astonished to see them come flying toward him, and thrusting his
arms between the bars he seized the Scarecrow in a firm grip. In the
next instant he realized, from the way the straw crunched between his
fingers, that he had captured the non-eatable man, but during that
instant of delay Dorothy and Ojo had slipped by the Giant and were out
of reach. Uttering a howl of rage the monster threw the Scarecrow after
them with one hand and grabbed Scraps with the other.

The poor Scarecrow went whirling through the air and so cleverly was he
aimed that he struck Ojo's back and sent the boy tumbling head over
heels, and he tripped Dorothy and sent her, also, sprawling upon the
ground. Toto flew out of the little girl's arms and landed some distance
ahead, and all were so dazed that it was a moment before they could
scramble to their feet again. When they did so they turned to look
toward the Giant's cave, and at that moment the ferocious Mister Yoop
threw the Patchwork Girl at them.

Down went all three again, in a heap, with Scraps on top. The Giant
roared so terribly that for a time they were afraid he had broken loose;
but he hadn't. So they sat in the road and looked at one another in a
rather bewildered way, and then began to feel glad.

"We did it!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, with satisfaction. "And now we are
free to go on our way."

"Mister Yoop is very impolite," declared Scraps. "He jarred me
terribly. It's lucky my stitches are so fine and strong, for otherwise
such harsh treatment might rip me up the back."

"Allow me to apologize for the Giant," said the Scarecrow, raising the
Patchwork Girl to her feet and dusting her skirt with his stuffed hands.
"Mister Yoop is a perfect stranger to me, but I fear, from the rude
manner in which he has acted, that he is no gentleman."

Dorothy and Ojo laughed at this statement and Toto barked as if he
understood the joke, after which they all felt better and resumed the
journey in high spirits.

"Of course," said the little girl, when they had walked a way along the
passage, "it was lucky for us the Giant was caged; for, if he had
happened to be loose, he--he--"

"Perhaps, in that case, he wouldn't be hungry any more," said Ojo
gravely.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




HIP HOPPER THE CHAMPION

CHAP. 21

[Illustration]


They must have had good courage to climb all those rocks, for after
getting out of the canyon they encountered more rock hills to be
surmounted. Toto could jump from one rock to another quite easily, but
the others had to creep and climb with care, so that after a whole day
of such work Dorothy and Ojo found themselves very tired.

As they gazed upward at the great mass of tumbled rocks that covered the
steep incline, Dorothy gave a little groan and said:

"That's going to be a ter'ble hard climb, Scarecrow. I wish we could
find the dark well without so much trouble."

"Suppose," said Ojo, "you wait here and let me do the climbing, for
it's on my account we're searching for the dark well. Then, if I don't
find anything, I'll come back and join you."

"No," replied the little girl, shaking her head positively, "we'll all
go together, for that way we can help each other. If you went alone,
something might happen to you, Ojo."

So they began the climb and found it indeed difficult, for a way. But
presently, in creeping over the big crags, they found a path at their
feet which wound in and out among the masses of rock and was quite
smooth and easy to walk upon. As the path gradually ascended the
mountain, although in a roundabout way, they decided to follow it.

"This must be the road to the Country of the Hoppers," said the
Scarecrow.

"Who are the Hoppers?" asked Dorothy.

"Some people Jack Pumpkinhead told me about," he replied.

"I didn't hear him," replied the girl.

"No; you were asleep," explained the Scarecrow. "But he told Scraps and
me that the Hoppers and the Horners live on this mountain."

"He said _in_ the mountain," declared Scraps; "but of course he meant
_on_ it."

"Didn't he say what the Hoppers and Horners were like?" inquired
Dorothy.

"No; he only said they were two separate nations, and that the Horners
were the most important."

"Well, if we go to their country we'll find out all about 'em," said the
girl. "But I've never heard Ozma mention those people, so they can't be
_very_ important."

"Is this mountain in the Land of Oz?" asked Scraps.

"Course it is," answered Dorothy. "It's in the South Country of the
Quadlings. When one comes to the edge of Oz, in any direction, there is
nothing more to be seen at all. Once you could see sandy desert all
around Oz; but now it's diff'rent, and no other people can see us, any
more than we can see them."

"If the mountain is under Ozma's rule, why doesn't she know about the
Hoppers and the Horners?" Ojo asked.

"Why, it's a fairyland," explained Dorothy, "and lots of queer people
live in places so tucked away that those in the Emerald City never even
hear of 'em. In the middle of the country it's diff'rent, but when you
get around the edges you're sure to run into strange little corners that
surprise you. I know, for I've traveled in Oz a good deal, and so has
the Scarecrow."

"Yes," admitted the straw man, "I've been considerable of a traveler, in
my time, and I like to explore strange places. I find I learn much more
by traveling than by staying at home."

During this conversation they had been walking up the steep pathway and
now found themselves well up on the mountain. They could see nothing
around them, for the rocks beside their path were higher than their
heads. Nor could they see far in front of them, because the path was so
crooked. But suddenly they stopped, because the path ended and there was
no place to go. Ahead was a big rock lying against the side of the
mountain, and this blocked the way completely.

"There wouldn't be a path, though, if it didn't go somewhere," said the
Scarecrow, wrinkling his forehead in deep thought.

"This is somewhere, isn't it?" asked the Patchwork Girl, laughing at the
bewildered looks of the others.

    "The path is locked, the way is blocked,
    Yet here we've innocently flocked;
    And now we're here it's rather queer
    There's no front door that can be knocked."

"Please don't, Scraps," said Ojo. "You make me nervous."

"Well," said Dorothy, "I'm glad of a little rest, for that's a drea'ful
steep path."

As she spoke she leaned against the edge of the big rock that stood in
their way. To her surprise it slowly swung backward and showed behind it
a dark hole that looked like the mouth of a tunnel.

"Why, here's where the path goes to!" she exclaimed.

"So it is," answered the Scarecrow. "But the question is, do we want to
go where the path does?"

"It's underground; right inside the mountain," said Ojo, peering into
the dark hole. "Perhaps there's a well there; and, if there is, it's
sure to be a dark one."

"Why, that's true enough!" cried Dorothy with eagerness. "Let's go in,
Scarecrow; 'cause, if others have gone, we're pretty safe to go, too."

Toto looked in and barked, but he did not venture to enter until the
Scarecrow had bravely gone first. Scraps followed closely after the
straw man and then Ojo and Dorothy timidly stepped inside the tunnel. As
soon as all of them had passed the big rock, it slowly turned and filled
up the opening again; but now they were no longer in the dark, for a
soft, rosy light enabled them to see around them quite distinctly.

It was only a passage, wide enough for two of them to walk abreast--with
Toto in between them--and it had a high, arched roof. They could not see
where the light which flooded the place so pleasantly came from, for
there were no lamps anywhere visible. The passage ran straight for a
little way and then made a bend to the right and another sharp turn to
the left, after which it went straight again. But there were no side
passages, so they could not lose their way.

After proceeding some distance, Toto, who had gone on ahead, began to
bark loudly. They ran around a bend to see what was the matter and found
a man sitting on the floor of the passage and leaning his back against
the wall. He had probably been asleep before Toto's barks aroused him,
for he was now rubbing his eyes and staring at the little dog with all
his might.

There was something about this man that Toto objected to, and when he
slowly rose to his foot they saw what it was. He had but one leg, set
just below the middle of his round, fat body; but it was a stout leg and
had a broad, flat foot at the bottom of it, on which the man seemed to
stand very well. He had never had but this one leg, which looked
something like a pedestal, and when Toto ran up and made a grab at the
man's ankle he hopped first one way and then another in a very active
manner, looking so frightened that Scraps laughed aloud.

Toto was usually a well behaved dog, but this time he was angry and
snapped at the man's leg again and again. This filled the poor fellow
with fear, and in hopping out of Toto's reach he suddenly lost his
balance and tumbled heel over head upon the floor. When he sat up he
kicked Toto on the nose and made the dog howl angrily, but Dorothy now
ran forward and caught Toto's collar, holding him back.

"Do you surrender?" she asked the man.

"Who? Me?" asked the Hopper.

"Yes; you," said the little girl.

"Am I captured?" he inquired.

"Of course. My dog has captured you," she said.

"Well," replied the man, "if I'm captured I must surrender, for it's the
proper thing to do. I like to do everything proper, for it saves one a
lot of trouble."

"It does, indeed," said Dorothy. "Please tell us who you are."

"I'm Hip Hopper--Hip Hopper, the Champion."

"Champion what?" she asked in surprise.

"Champion wrestler. I'm a very strong man, and that ferocious animal
which you are so kindly holding is the first living thing that has ever
conquered me."

"And you are a Hopper?" she continued.

"Yes. My people live in a great city not far from here. Would you like
to visit it?"

"I'm not sure," she said with hesitation. "Have you any dark wells in
your city?"

"I think not. We have wells, you know, but they're all well lighted, and
a well lighted well cannot well be a dark well. But there may be such a
thing as a very dark well in the Horner Country, which is a black spot
on the face of the earth."

"Where is the Horner Country?" Ojo inquired.

"The other side of the mountain. There's a fence between the Hopper
Country and the Horner Country, and a gate in the fence; but you can't
pass through just now, because we are at war with the Horners."

"That's too bad," said the Scarecrow. "What seems to be the trouble?"

"Why, one of them made a very insulting remark about my people. He said
we were lacking in understanding, because we had only one leg to a
person. I can't see that legs have anything to do with understanding
things. The Horners each have two legs, just as you have. That's one leg
too many, it seems to me."

"No," declared Dorothy, "it's just the right number."

"You don't need them," argued the Hopper, obstinately. "You've only one
head, and one body, and one nose and mouth. Two legs are quite
unnecessary, and they spoil one's shape."

"But how can you walk, with only one leg?" asked Ojo.

"Walk! Who wants to walk?" exclaimed the man. "Walking is a terribly
awkward way to travel. I hop, and so do all my people. It's so much more
graceful and agreeable than walking."

"I don't agree with you," said the Scarecrow. "But tell me, is there any
way to get to the Horner Country without going through the city of the
Hoppers?"

"Yes; there is another path from the rocky lowlands, outside the
mountain, that leads straight to the entrance of the Horner Country. But
it's a long way around, so you'd better come with me. Perhaps they will
allow you to go through the gate; but we expect to conquer them this
afternoon, if we get time, and then you may go and come as you please."

They thought it best to take the Hopper's advice, and asked him to lead
the way. This he did in a series of hops, and he moved so swiftly in
this strange manner that those with two legs had to run to keep up with
him.




THE JOKING HORNERS

CHAP. 22

[Illustration]


It was not long before they left the passage and came to a great cave,
so high that it must have reached nearly to the top of the mountain
within which it lay. It was a magnificent cave, illumined by the soft,
invisible light, so that everything in it could be plainly seen. The
walls were of polished marble, white with veins of delicate colors
running through it, and the roof was arched and carved in designs both
fantastic and beautiful.

Built beneath this vast dome was a pretty village--not very large, for
there seemed not more than fifty houses altogether--and the dwellings
were of marble and artistically designed. No grass nor flowers nor
trees grew in this cave, so the yards surrounding the houses were smooth
and bare and had low walls around them to mark their boundaries.

In the streets and the yards of the houses were many people, all having
one leg growing below their bodies and all hopping here and there
whenever they moved. Even the children stood firmly upon their single
legs and never lost their balance.

"All hail, Champion!" cried a man in the first group of Hoppers they
met; "whom have you captured?"

"No one," replied the Champion in a gloomy voice; "these strangers have
captured me."

"Then," said another, "we will rescue you, and capture them, for we are
greater in number."

"No," answered the Champion, "I can't allow it. I've surrendered, and it
isn't polite to capture those you've surrendered to."

"Never mind that," said Dorothy. "We will give you your liberty and set
you free."

"Really?" asked the Champion in joyous tones.

"Yes," said the little girl; "your people may need you to help conquer
the Horners."

At this all the Hoppers looked downcast and sad. Several more had joined
the group by this time and quite a crowd of curious men, women and
children surrounded the strangers.

"This war with our neighbors is a terrible thing," remarked one of the
women. "Some one is almost sure to get hurt."

"Why do you say that, madam?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"Because the horns of our enemies are sharp, and in battle they will try
to stick those horns into our warriors," she replied.

"How many horns do the Horners have?" asked Dorothy.

"Each has one horn in the center of his forehead," was the answer.

"Oh, then they're unicorns," declared the Scarecrow.

"No; they're Horners. We never go to war with them if we can help it, on
account of their dangerous horns; but this insult was so great and so
unprovoked that our brave men decided to fight, in order to be
revenged," said the woman.

"What weapons do you fight with?" the Scarecrow asked.

"We have no weapons," explained the Champion. "Whenever we fight the
Horners, our plan is to push them back, for our arms are longer than
theirs."

"Then you are better armed," said Scraps.

"Yes; but they have those terrible horns, and unless we are careful they
prick us with the points," returned the Champion with a shudder. "That
makes a war with them dangerous, and a dangerous war cannot be a
pleasant one."

"I see very clearly," remarked the Scarecrow, "that you are going to
have trouble in conquering those Horners--unless we help you."

"Oh!" cried the Hoppers in a chorus; "can you help us? Please do! We
will be greatly obliged! It would please us very much!" and by these
exclamations the Scarecrow knew that his speech had met with favor.

"How far is it to the Horner Country?" he asked.

"Why, it's just the other side of the fence," they answered, and the
Champion added:

"Come with me, please, and I'll show you the Horners."

So they followed the Champion and several others through the streets and
just beyond the village came to a very high picket fence, built all of
marble, which seemed to divide the great cave into two equal parts.

But the part inhabited by the Horners was in no way as grand in
appearance as that of the Hoppers. Instead of being marble, the walls
and roof were of dull gray rock and the square houses were plainly made
of the same material. But in extent the city was much larger than that
of the Hoppers and the streets were thronged with numerous people who
busied themselves in various ways.

Looking through the open pickets of the fence our friends watched the
Horners, who did not know they were being watched by strangers, and
found them very unusual in appearance. They were little folks in size
and had bodies round as balls and short legs and arms. Their heads were
round, too, and they had long, pointed ears and a horn set in the center
of the forehead. The horns did not seem very terrible, for they were not
more than six inches long; but they were ivory white and sharp pointed,
and no wonder the Hoppers feared them.

The skins of the Horners were light brown, but they wore snow-white
robes and were bare-footed. Dorothy thought the most striking thing
about them was their hair, which grew in three distinct colors on each
and every head--red, yellow and green. The red was at the bottom and
sometimes hung over their eyes; then came a broad circle of yellow and
the green was at the top and formed a brush-shaped top-knot.

None of the Horners was yet aware of the presence of strangers, who
watched the little brown people for a time and then went to the big gate
in the center of the dividing fence. It was locked on both sides and
over the latch was a sign reading:

    "WAR IS DECLARED"

"Can't we go through?" asked Dorothy.

"Not now," answered the Champion.

"I think," said the Scarecrow, "that if I could talk with those Horners
they would apologize to you, and then there would be no need to fight."

"Can't you talk from this side," asked the Champion.

"Not so well," replied the Scarecrow. "Do you suppose you could throw me
over that fence? It is high, but I am very light."

"We can try it," said the Hopper. "I am perhaps the strongest man in my
country, so I'll undertake to do the throwing. But I won't promise you
will land on your feet."

"No matter about that," returned the Scarecrow. "Just toss me over and
I'll be satisfied."

So the Champion picked up the Scarecrow and balanced him a moment, to
see how much he weighed, and then with all his strength tossed him high
into the air.

Perhaps if the Scarecrow had been a trifle heavier he would have been
easier to throw and would have gone a greater distance; but, as it was,
instead of going over the fence he landed just on top of it, and one of
the sharp pickets caught him in the middle of his back and held him fast
prisoner. Had he been face downward the Scarecrow might have managed to
free himself, but lying on his back on the picket his hands waved in the
air of the Horner Country while his feet kicked the air of the Hopper
Country; so there he was.

"Are you hurt?" called the Patchwork Girl anxiously.

"Course not," said Dorothy. "But if he wiggles that way he may tear his
clothes. How can we get him down, Mr. Champion?"

The Champion shook his head.

"I don't know," he confessed. "If he could scare Horners as well as he
does crows, it might be a good idea to leave him there."

"This is terrible," said Ojo, almost ready to cry. "I s'pose it's
because I am Ojo the Unlucky that everyone who tries to help me gets
into trouble."

"You are lucky to have anyone to help you," declared Dorothy. "But don't
worry. We'll rescue the Scarecrow, somehow."

"I know how," announced Scraps. "Here, Mr. Champion; just throw me up to
the Scarecrow. I'm nearly as light as he is, and when I'm on top the
fence I'll pull our friend off the picket and toss him down to you."

[Illustration]

"All right," said the Champion, and he picked up the Patchwork Girl and
threw her in the same manner he had the Scarecrow. He must have used
more strength this time, however, for Scraps sailed far over the top of
the fence and, without being able to grab the Scarecrow at all, tumbled
to the ground in the Horner Country, where her stuffed body knocked over
two men and a woman and made a crowd that had collected there run like
rabbits to get away from her.

[Illustration]

Seeing the next moment that she was harmless, the people slowly returned
and gathered around the Patchwork Girl, regarding her with astonishment.
One of them wore a jeweled star in his hair, just above his horn, and
this seemed a person of importance. He spoke for the rest of his people,
who treated him with great respect.

"Who are you, Unknown Being?" he asked.

"Scraps," she said, rising to her feet and patting her cotton wadding
smooth where it had bunched up.

"And where did you come from?" he continued.

"Over the fence. Don't be silly. There's no other place I _could_ have
come from," she replied.

He looked at her thoughtfully.

"You are not a Hopper," said he, "for you have two legs. They're not
very well shaped, but they are two in number. And that strange creature
on top the fence--why doesn't he stop kicking?--must be your brother, or
father, or son, for he also has two legs."

"You must have been to visit the Wise Donkey," said Scraps, laughing so
merrily that the crowd smiled with her, in sympathy. "But that reminds
me, Captain--or King--"

"I am Chief of the Horners, and my name is Jak."

"Of course; Little Jack Horner; I might have known it. But the reason I
volplaned over the fence was so I could have a talk with you about the
Hoppers."

"What about the Hoppers?" asked the Chief, frowning.

"You've insulted them, and you'd better beg their pardon," said Scraps.
"If you don't, they'll probably hop over here and conquer you."

"We're not afraid--as long as the gate is locked," declared the Chief.
"And we didn't insult them at all. One of us made a joke that the stupid
Hoppers couldn't see."

The Chief smiled as he said this and the smile made his face look quite
jolly.

"What was the joke?" asked Scraps.

"A Horner said they have less understanding than we, because they've
only one leg. Ha, ha! You see the point, don't you? If you stand on your
legs, and your legs are under you, then--ha, ha, ha!--then your legs are
your under-standing. Hee, hee, hee! Ho, ho! My, but that's a fine joke.
And the stupid Hoppers couldn't see it! They couldn't see that with only
one leg they must have less under-standing than we who have two legs.
Ha, ha, ha! Hee, hee! Ho, ho!" The Chief wiped the tears of laughter
from his eyes with the bottom hem of his white robe, and all the other
Horners wiped their eyes on their robes, for they had laughed just as
heartily as their Chief at the absurd joke.

"Then," said Scraps, "their understanding of the understanding you meant
led to the misunderstanding."

"Exactly; and so there's no need for us to apologize," returned the
Chief.

"No need for an apology, perhaps, but much need for an explanation,"
said Scraps decidedly. "You don't want war, do you?"

"Not if we can help it," admitted Jak Horner. "The question is, who's
going to explain the joke to the Horners? You know it spoils any joke to
be obliged to explain it, and this is the best joke I ever heard."

"Who made the joke?" asked Scraps.

"Diksey Horner. He is working in the mines, just now, but he'll be home
before long. Suppose we wait and talk with him about it? Maybe he'll be
willing to explain his joke to the Hoppers."

"All right," said Scraps. "I'll wait, if Diksey isn't too long."

"No, he's short; he's shorter than I am. Ha, ha, ha! Say! that's a
better joke than Diksey's. He won't be too long, because he's short.
Hee, hee, ho!"

The other Horners who were standing by roared with laughter and seemed
to like their Chief's joke as much as he did. Scraps thought it was odd
that they could be so easily amused, but decided there could be little
harm in people who laughed so merrily.




PEACE IS DECLARED

CHAP. 23

[Illustration]


"Come with me to my dwelling and I'll introduce you to my daughters,"
said the Chief. "We're bringing them up according to a book of rules
that was written by one of our leading old bachelors, and everyone says
they're a remarkable lot of girls."

So Scraps accompanied him along the street to a house that seemed on the
outside exceptionally grimy and dingy. The streets of this city were not
paved nor had any attempt been made to beautify the houses or their
surroundings, and having noticed this condition Scraps was astonished
when the Chief ushered her into his home.

Here was nothing grimy or faded, indeed. On the contrary, the room was
of dazzling brilliance and beauty, for it was lined throughout with an
exquisite metal that resembled translucent frosted silver. The surface
of this metal was highly ornamented in raised designs representing men,
animals, flowers and trees, and from the metal itself was radiated the
soft light which flooded the room. All the furniture was made of the
same glorious metal, and Scraps asked what it was.

"That's radium," answered the Chief. "We Horners spend all our time
digging radium from the mines under this mountain, and we use it to
decorate our homes and make them pretty and cosy. It is a medicine, too,
and no one can ever be sick who lives near radium."

"Have you plenty of it?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

"More than we can use. All the houses in this city are decorated with
it, just the same as mine is."

"Why don't you use it on your streets, then, and the outside of your
houses, to make them as pretty as they are within?" she inquired.

"Outside? Who cares for the outside of anything?" asked the Chief. "We
Horners don't live on the outside of our homes; we live inside. Many
people are like those stupid Hoppers, who love to make an outside show.
I suppose you strangers thought their city more beautiful than ours,
because you judged from appearances and they have handsome marble houses
and marble streets; but if you entered one of their stiff dwellings you
would find it bare and uncomfortable, as all their show is on the
outside. They have an idea that what is not seen by others is not
important, but with us the rooms we live in are our chief delight and
care, and we pay no attention to outside show."

"Seems to me," said Scraps, musingly, "it would be better to make it all
pretty--inside and out."

"Seems? Why, you're all seams, my girl!" said the Chief; and then he
laughed heartily at his latest joke and a chorus of small voices echoed
the chorus with "tee-hee-hee! ha, ha!"

Scraps turned around and found a row of girls seated in radium chairs
ranged along one wall of the room. There were nineteen of them, by
actual count, and they were of all sizes from a tiny child to one almost
a grown woman. All were neatly dressed in spotless white robes and had
brown skins, horns on their foreheads and three-colored hair.

"These," said the Chief, "are my sweet daughters. My dears, I introduce
to you Miss Scraps Patchwork, a lady who is traveling in foreign parts
to increase her store of wisdom."

The nineteen Horner girls all arose and made a polite courtesy, after
which they resumed their seats and rearranged their robes properly.

"Why do they sit so still, and all in a row?" asked Scraps.

"Because it is ladylike and proper," replied the Chief.

"But some are just children, poor things! Don't they ever run around and
play and laugh, and have a good time?"

"No, indeed," said the Chief. "That would be improper in young ladies,
as well as in those who will sometime become young ladies. My daughters
are being brought up according to the rules and regulations laid down by
a leading bachelor who has given the subject much study and is himself a
man of taste and culture. Politeness is his great hobby, and he claims
that if a child is allowed to do an impolite thing one cannot expect the
grown person to do anything better."

"Is it impolite to romp and shout and be jolly?" asked Scraps.

"Well, sometimes it is, and sometimes it isn't," replied the Horner,
after considering the question. "By curbing such inclinations in my
daughters we keep on the safe side. Once in a while I make a good joke,
as you have heard, and then I permit my daughters to laugh decorously;
but they are never allowed to make a joke themselves."

"That old bachelor who made the rules ought to be skinned alive!"
declared Scraps, and would have said more on the subject had not the
door opened to admit a little Horner man whom the Chief introduced as
Diksey.

"What's up, Chief?" asked Diksey, winking nineteen times at the nineteen
girls, who demurely cast down their eyes because their father was
looking.

The Chief told the man that his joke had not been understood by the dull
Hoppers, who had become so angry that they had declared war. So the only
way to avoid a terrible battle was to explain the joke so they could
understand it.

"All right," replied Diksey, who seemed a good-natured man; "I'll go at
once to the fence and explain. I don't want any war with the Hoppers,
for wars between nations always cause hard feelings."

So the Chief and Diksey and Scraps left the house and went back to the
marble picket fence. The Scarecrow was still stuck on the top of his
picket but had now ceased to struggle. On the other side of the fence
were Dorothy and Ojo, looking between the pickets; and there, also, were
the Champion and many other Hoppers.

Diksey went close to the fence and said:

"My good Hoppers, I wish to explain that what I said about you was a
joke. You have but one leg each, and we have two legs each. Our legs are
under us, whether one or two, and we stand on them. So, when I said you
had less understanding than we, I did not mean that you had less
understanding, you understand, but that you had less standundering, so
to speak. Do you understand that?"

The Hoppers thought it over carefully. Then one said:

"That is clear enough; but where does the joke come in?"

Dorothy laughed, for she couldn't help it, although all the others were
solemn enough.

"I'll tell you where the joke comes in," she said, and took the Hoppers
away to a distance, where the Horners could not hear them. "You know,"
she then explained, "those neighbors of yours are not very bright, poor
things, and what they think is a joke isn't a joke at all--it's true,
don't you see?"

"True that we have less understanding?" asked the Champion.

"Yes; it's true because you don't understand such a poor joke; if you
did, you'd be no wiser than they are."

"Ah, yes; of course," they answered, looking very wise.

"So I'll tell you what to do," continued Dorothy. "Laugh at their poor
joke and tell 'em it's pretty good for a Horner. Then they won't dare
say you have less understanding, because you understand as much as they
do."

The Hoppers looked at one another questioningly and blinked their eyes
and tried to think what it all meant; but they couldn't figure it out.

"What do you think, Champion?" asked one of them.

"I think it is dangerous to think of this thing any more than we can
help," he replied. "Let us do as this girl says and laugh with the
Horners, so as to make them believe we see the joke. Then there will be
peace again and no need to fight."

They readily agreed to this and returned to the fence laughing as loud
and as hard as they could, although they didn't feel like laughing a
bit. The Horners were much surprised.

"That's a fine joke--for a Horner--and we are much pleased with it,"
said the Champion, speaking between the pickets. "But please don't do it
again."

"I won't," promised Diksey. "If I think of another such joke I'll try to
forget it."

"Good!" cried the Chief Horner. "The war is over and peace is declared."

There was much joyful shouting on both sides the fence and the gate was
unlocked and thrown wide open, so that Scraps was able to rejoin her
friends.

"What about the Scarecrow?" she asked Dorothy.

"We must get him down, somehow or other," was the reply.

"Perhaps the Horners can find a way," suggested Ojo. So they all went
through the gate and Dorothy asked the Chief Horner how they could get
the Scarecrow off the fence. The Chief didn't know how, but Diksey said:

"A ladder's the thing."

"Have you one?" asked Dorothy.

"To be sure. We use ladders in our mines," said he. Then he ran away to
get the ladder, and while he was gone the Horners gathered around and
welcomed the strangers to their country, for through them a great war
had been avoided.

In a little while Diksey came back with a tall ladder which he placed
against the fence. Ojo at once climbed to the top of the ladder and
Dorothy went about halfway up and Scraps stood at the foot of it. Toto
ran around it and barked. Then Ojo pulled the Scarecrow away from the
picket and passed him down to Dorothy, who in turn lowered him to the
Patchwork Girl.

As soon as he was on his feet and standing on solid ground the Scarecrow
said:

"Much obliged. I feel much better. I'm not stuck on that picket any
more."

The Horners began to laugh, thinking this was a joke, but the Scarecrow
shook himself and patted his straw a little and said to Dorothy: "Is
there much of a hole in my back?"

The little girl examined him carefully.

"There's quite a hole," she said. "But I've got a needle and thread in
the knapsack and I'll sew you up again."

"Do so," he begged earnestly, and again the Horners laughed, to the
Scarecrow's great annoyance.

While Dorothy was sewing up the hole in the straw man's back Scraps
examined the other parts of him.

"One of his legs is ripped, too!" she exclaimed.

"Oho!" cried little Diksey; "that's bad. Give him the needle and thread
and let him mend his ways."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the Chief, and the other Horners at once roared
with laughter.

"What's funny?" inquired the Scarecrow sternly.

"Don't you see?" asked Diksey, who had laughed even harder than the
others. "That's a joke. It's by odds the best joke I ever made. You walk
with your legs, and so that's the way you walk, and your legs are the
ways. See? So, when you mend your legs, you mend your ways. Ho, ho, ho!
hee, hee! I'd no idea I could make such a fine joke!"

"Just wonderful!" echoed the Chief. "How do you manage to do it,
Diksey?"

[Illustration]

"I don't know," said Diksey modestly. "Perhaps it's the radium, but I
rather think it's my splendid intellect."

"If you don't quit it," the Scarecrow told him, "there'll be a worse war
than the one you've escaped from."

Ojo had been deep in thought, and now he asked the Chief: "Is there a
dark well in any part of your country?"

"A dark well? None that ever I heard of," was the answer.

"Oh, yes," said Diksey, who overheard the boy's question. "There's a
very dark well down in my radium mine."

"Is there any water in it?" Ojo eagerly asked.

"Can't say; I've never looked to see. But we can find out."

So, as soon as the Scarecrow was mended, they decided to go with Diksey
to the mine. When Dorothy had patted the straw man into shape again he
declared he felt as good as new and equal to further adventures.

"Still," said he, "I prefer not to do picket duty again. High life
doesn't seem to agree with my constitution." And then they hurried away
to escape the laughter of the Horners, who thought this was another
joke.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




OJO FINDS THE DARK WELL

CHAP. 24

[Illustration]


They now followed Diksey to the farther end of the great cave, beyond
the Horner city, where there were several round, dark holes leading into
the ground in a slanting direction. Diksey went to one of these holes
and said:

"Here is the mine in which lies the dark well you are seeking. Follow me
and step carefully and I'll lead you to the place."

He went in first and after him came Ojo, and then Dorothy, with the
Scarecrow behind her. The Patchwork Girl entered last of all, for Toto
kept close beside his little mistress.

A few steps beyond the mouth of the opening it was pitch dark. "You
won't lose your way, though," said the Horner, "for there's only one
way to go. The mine's mine and I know every step of the way. How's that
for a joke, eh? The mine's mine." Then he chuckled gleefully as they
followed him silently down the steep slant. The hole was just big enough
to permit them to walk upright, although the Scarecrow, being much the
taller of the party, often had to bend his head to keep from hitting the
top.

The floor of the tunnel was difficult to walk upon because it had been
worn smooth as glass, and pretty soon Scraps, who was some distance
behind the others, slipped and fell head foremost. At once she began to
slide downward, so swiftly that when she came to the Scarecrow she
knocked him off his feet and sent him tumbling against Dorothy, who
tripped up Ojo. The boy fell against the Horner, so that all went
tumbling down the slide in a regular mix-up, unable to see where they
were going because of the darkness.

Fortunately, when they reached the bottom the Scarecrow and Scraps were
in front, and the others bumped against them, so that no one was hurt.
They found themselves in a vast cave which was dimly lighted by the tiny
grains of radium that lay scattered among the loose rocks.

"Now," said Diksey, when they had all regained their feet, "I will show
you where the dark well is. This is a big place, but if we hold fast to
each other we won't get lost."

They took hold of hands and the Horner led them into a dark corner,
where he halted.

"Be careful," said he warningly. "The well is at your feet."

"All right," replied Ojo, and kneeling down he felt in the well with his
hand and found that it contained a quantity of water. "Where's the gold
flask, Dorothy?" he asked, and the little girl handed him the flask,
which she had brought with her.

Ojo knelt again and by feeling carefully in the dark managed to fill the
flask with the unseen water that was in the well. Then he screwed the
top of the flask firmly in place and put the precious water in his
pocket.

"All right!" he said again, in a glad voice; "now we can go back."

They returned to the mouth of the tunnel and began to creep cautiously
up the incline. This time they made Scraps stay behind, for fear she
would slip again; but they all managed to get up in safety and the
Munchkin boy was very happy when he stood in the Horner city and
realized that the water from the dark well, which he and his friends had
traveled so far to secure, was safe in his jacket pocket.

[Illustration]




THEY BRIBE THE LAZY QUADLING

CHAP. 25

[Illustration: Every time I see a river I have chills]


"Now," said Dorothy, as they stood on the mountain path, having left
behind them the cave in which dwelt the Hoppers and the Horners, "I
think we must find a road into the Country of the Winkies, for there is
where Ojo wants to go next."

"Is there such a road?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I don't know," she replied. "I s'pose we can go back the way we came,
to Jack Pumpkinhead's house, and then turn into the Winkie Country; but
that seems like running 'round a haystack, doesn't it?"

"Yes," said the Scarecrow. "What is the next thing Ojo must get?"

"A yellow butterfly," answered the boy.

"That means the Winkie Country, all right, for it's the yellow country
of Oz," remarked Dorothy. "I think, Scarecrow, we ought to take him to
the Tin Woodman, for he's the Emp'ror of the Winkies and will help us to
find what Ojo wants."

"Of course," replied the Scarecrow, brightening at the suggestion. "The
Tin Woodman will do anything we ask him, for he's one of my dearest
friends. I believe we can take a crosscut into his country and so get to
his castle a day sooner than if we travel back the way we came."

"I think so, too," said the girl; "and that means we must keep to the
left."

They were obliged to go down the mountain before they found any path
that led in the direction they wanted to go, but among the tumbled rocks
at the foot of the mountain was a faint trail which they decided to
follow. Two or three hours' walk along this trail brought them to a
clear, level country, where there were a few farms and some scattered
houses. But they knew they were still in the Country of the Quadlings,
because everything had a bright red color. Not that the trees and
grasses were red, but the fences and houses were painted that color and
all the wild-flowers that bloomed by the wayside had red blossoms. This
part of the Quadling Country seemed peaceful and prosperous, if rather
lonely, and the road was now more distinct and easier to follow.

But just as they were congratulating themselves upon the progress they
had made they came upon a broad river which swept along between high
banks, and here the road ended and there was no bridge of any sort to
allow them to cross.

"This is queer," mused Dorothy, looking at the water reflectively. "Why
should there be any road, if the river stops everyone walking along it?"

"Wow!" said Toto, gazing earnestly into her face.

"That's the best answer you'll get," declared the Scarecrow, with his
comical smile, "for no one knows any more than Toto about this road."

Said Scraps:

    "Ev'ry time I see a river,
    I have chills that make me shiver,
    For I never can forget
    All the water's very wet.
    If my patches get a soak
    It will be a sorry joke;
    So to swim I'll never try
    Till I find the water dry."

"Try to control yourself, Scraps," said Ojo; "you're getting crazy
again. No one intends to swim that river."

"No," decided Dorothy, "we couldn't swim it if we tried. It's too big a
river, and the water moves awful fast."

"There ought to be a ferryman with a boat," said the Scarecrow; "but I
don't see any."

"Couldn't we make a raft?" suggested Ojo.

"There's nothing to make one of," answered Dorothy.

"Wow!" said Toto again, and Dorothy saw he was looking along the bank of
the river.

"Why, he sees a house over there!" cried the little girl. "I wonder we
didn't notice it ourselves. Let's go and ask the people how to get
'cross the river."

A quarter of a mile along the bank stood a small, round house, painted
bright red, and as it was on their side of the river they hurried toward
it. A chubby little man, dressed all in red, came out to greet them, and
with him were two children, also in red costumes. The man's eyes were
big and staring as he examined the Scarecrow and the Patchwork Girl, and
the children shyly hid behind him and peeked timidly at Toto.

"Do you live here, my good man?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I think I do, Most Mighty Magician," replied the Quadling, bowing low;
"but whether I'm awake or dreaming I can't be positive, so I'm not sure
where I live. If you'll kindly pinch me I'll find out all about it."

"You're awake," said Dorothy, "and this is no magician, but just the
Scarecrow."

"But he's alive," protested the man, "and he oughtn't to be, you know.
And that other dreadful person--the girl who is all patches--seems to be
alive, too."

"Very much so," declared Scraps, making a face at him. "But that isn't
your affair, you know."

"I've a right to be surprised, haven't I?" asked the man meekly.

"I'm not sure; but anyhow you've no right to say I'm dreadful. The
Scarecrow, who is a gentleman of great wisdom, thinks I'm beautiful,"
retorted Scraps.

"Never mind all that," said Dorothy. "Tell us, good Quadling, how we can
get across the river."

"I don't know," replied the Quadling.

"Don't you ever cross it?" asked the girl.

"Never."

"Don't travelers cross it?"

"Not to my knowledge," said he.

They were much surprised to hear this, and the man added: "It's a pretty
big river, and the current is strong. I know a man who lives on the
opposite bank, for I've seen him there a good many years; but we've
never spoken because neither of us has ever crossed over."

"That's queer," said the Scarecrow. "Don't you own a boat?"

The man shook his head.

"Nor a raft?"

"No."

"Where does this river go to?" asked Dorothy.

"That way," answered the man, pointing with one hand, "it goes into the
Country of the Winkies, which is ruled by the Tin Emperor, who must be a
mighty magician because he's all made of tin, and yet he's alive. And
that way," pointing with the other hand, "the river runs between two
mountains where dangerous people dwell."

The Scarecrow looked at the water before them.

"The current flows toward the Winkie Country," said he; "and so, if we
had a boat, or a raft, the river would float us there more quickly and
more easily than we could walk."

"That is true," agreed Dorothy; and then they all looked thoughtful and
wondered what could be done.

"Why can't the man make us a raft?" asked Ojo.

"Will you?" inquired Dorothy, turning to the Quadling.

The chubby man shook his head.

"I'm too lazy," he said. "My wife says I'm the laziest man in all Oz,
and she is a truthful woman. I hate work of any kind, and making a raft
is hard work."

"I'll give you my em'rald ring," promised the girl.

"No; I don't care for emeralds. If it were a ruby, which is the color I
like best, I might work a little while."

"I've got some Square Meal Tablets," said the Scarecrow. "Each one is
the same as a dish of soup, a fried fish, a mutton pot-pie, lobster
salad, charlotte russe and lemon jelly--all made into one little tablet
that you can swallow without trouble."

"Without trouble!" exclaimed the Quadling, much interested; "then those
tablets would be fine for a lazy man. It's such hard work to chew when
you eat."

"I'll give you six of those tablets if you'll help us make a raft,"
promised the Scarecrow. "They're a combination of food which people who
eat are very fond of. I never eat, you know, being straw; but some of my
friends eat regularly. What do you say to my offer, Quadling?"

"I'll do it," decided the man. "I'll help, and you can do most of the
work. But my wife has gone fishing for red eels to-day, so some of you
will have to mind the children."

Scraps promised to do that, and the children were not so shy when the
Patchwork Girl sat down to play with them. They grew to like Toto, too,
and the little dog allowed them to pat him on his head, which gave the
little ones much joy.

There were a number of fallen trees near the house and the Quadling got
his axe and chopped them into logs of equal length. He took his wife's
clothesline to bind these logs together, so that they would form a raft,
and Ojo found some strips of wood and nailed them along the tops of the
logs, to render them more firm. The Scarecrow and Dorothy helped roll
the logs together and carry the strips of wood, but it took so long to
make the raft that evening came just as it was finished, and with
evening the Quadling's wife returned from her fishing.

The woman proved to be cross and bad-tempered, perhaps because she had
only caught one red eel during all the day. When she found that her
husband had used her clothesline, and the logs she had wanted for
firewood, and the boards she had intended to mend the shed with, and a
lot of gold nails, she became very angry. Scraps wanted to shake the
woman, to make her behave, but Dorothy talked to her in a gentle tone
and told the Quadling's wife she was a Princess of Oz and a friend of
Ozma and that when she got back to the Emerald City she would send them
a lot of things to repay them for the raft, including a new clothesline.
This promise pleased the woman and she soon became more pleasant, saying
they could stay the night at her house and begin their voyage on the
river next morning.

This they did, spending a pleasant evening with the Quadling family and
being entertained with such hospitality as the poor people were able to
offer them. The man groaned a good deal and said he had overworked
himself by chopping the logs, but the Scarecrow gave him two more
tablets than he had promised, which seemed to comfort the lazy fellow.




THE TRICK RIVER

CHAP. 26

[Illustration]


Next morning they pushed the raft into the water and all got aboard. The
Quadling man had to hold the log craft fast while they took their
places, and the flow of the river was so powerful that it nearly tore
the raft from his hands. As soon as they were all seated upon the logs
he let go and away it floated and the adventurers had begun their voyage
toward the Winkie Country.

The little house of the Quadlings was out of sight almost before they
had cried their good-byes, and the Scarecrow said in a pleased voice:
"It won't take us long to get to the Winkie Country, at this rate."

They had floated several miles down the stream and were enjoying the
ride when suddenly the raft slowed up, stopped short, and then began to
float back the way it had come.

"Why, what's wrong?" asked Dorothy, in astonishment; but they were all
just as bewildered as she was and at first no one could answer the
question. Soon, however, they realized the truth: that the current of
the river had reversed and the water was now flowing in the opposite
direction--toward the mountains.

They began to recognize the scenes they had passed, and by and by they
came in sight of the little house of the Quadlings again. The man was
standing on the river bank and he called to them:

"How do you do? Glad to see you again. I forgot to tell you that the
river changes its direction every little while. Sometimes it flows one
way, and sometimes the other."

They had no time to answer him, for the raft was swept past the house
and a long distance on the other side of it.

"We're going just the way we don't want to go," said Dorothy, "and I
guess the best thing we can do is to get to land before we're carried
any farther."

But they could not get to land. They had no oars, nor even a pole to
guide the raft with. The logs which bore them floated in the middle of
the stream and were held fast in that position by the strong current.

So they sat still and waited and, even while they were wondering what
could be done, the raft slowed down, stopped, and began drifting the
other way--in the direction it had first followed. After a time they
repassed the Quadling house and the man was still standing on the bank.
He cried out to them:

"Good day! Glad to see you again. I expect I shall see you a good many
times, as you go by, unless you happen to swim ashore."

By that time they had left him behind and were headed once more straight
toward the Winkie Country.

"This is pretty hard luck," said Ojo in a discouraged voice. "The Trick
River keeps changing, it seems, and here we must float back and forward
forever, unless we manage in some way to get ashore."

"Can you swim?" asked Dorothy.

"No; I'm Ojo the Unlucky."

"Neither can I. Toto can swim a little, but that won't help us to get to
shore."

"I don't know whether I could swim, or not," remarked Scraps; "but
if I tried it I'd surely ruin my lovely patches."

"My straw would get soggy in the water and I would sink," said the
Scarecrow.

So there seemed no way out of their dilemma and being helpless they
simply sat still. Ojo, who was on the front of the raft, looked over
into the water and thought he saw some large fishes swimming about. He
found a loose end of the clothesline which fastened the logs together,
and taking a gold nail from his pocket he bent it nearly double, to
form a hook, and tied it to the end of the line. Having baited the hook
with some bread which he broke from his loaf, he dropped the line into
the water and almost instantly it was seized by a great fish.

They knew it was a great fish, because it pulled so hard on the line
that it dragged the raft forward even faster than the current of the
river had carried it. The fish was frightened, and it was a strong
swimmer. As the other end of the clothesline was bound around the logs
he could not get it away, and as he had greedily swallowed the gold hook
at the first bite he could not get rid of that, either.

When they reached the place where the current had before changed, the
fish was still swimming ahead in its wild attempt to escape. The raft
slowed down, yet it did not stop, because the fish would not let it. It
continued to move in the same direction it had been going. As the
current reversed and rushed backward on its course it failed to drag the
raft with it. Slowly, inch by inch, they floated on, and the fish tugged
and tugged and kept them going.

"I hope he won't give up," said Ojo anxiously. "If the fish can hold out
until the current changes again, we'll be all right."

The fish did not give up, but held the raft bravely on its course, till
at last the water in the river shifted again and floated them the way
they wanted to go. But now the captive fish found its strength failing.
Seeking a refuge, it began to drag the raft toward the shore. As they
did not wish to land in this place the boy cut the rope with his
pocket-knife and set the fish free, just in time to prevent the raft
from grounding.

[Illustration]

The next time the river backed up the Scarecrow managed to seize the
branch of a tree that overhung the water and they all assisted him to
hold fast and prevent the raft from being carried backward. While they
waited here, Ojo spied a long broken branch lying upon the bank, so he
leaped ashore and got it. When he had stripped off the side shoots he
believed he could use the branch as a pole, to guide the raft in case of
emergency.

They clung to the tree until they found the water flowing the right way,
when they let go and permitted the raft to resume its voyage. In spite
of these pauses they were really making good progress toward the Winkie
Country and having found a way to conquer the adverse current their
spirits rose considerably. They could see little of the country through
which they were passing, because of the high banks, and they met with no
boats or other craft upon the surface of the river.

Once more the trick river reversed its current, but this time the
Scarecrow was on guard and used the pole to push the raft toward a big
rock which lay in the water. He believed the rock would prevent their
floating backward with the current, and so it did. They clung to this
anchorage until the water resumed its proper direction, when they
allowed the raft to drift on.

Floating around a bend they saw ahead a high bank of water, extending
across the entire river, and toward this they were being irresistibly
carried. There being no way to arrest the progress of the raft they
clung fast to the logs and let the river sweep them on. Swiftly the raft
climbed the bank of water and slid down on the other side, plunging its
edge deep into the water and drenching them all with spray.

As again the raft righted and drifted on, Dorothy and Ojo laughed at the
ducking they had received; but Scraps was much dismayed and the
Scarecrow took out his handkerchief and wiped the water off the
Patchwork Girl's patches as well as he was able to. The sun soon dried
her and the colors of her patches proved good, for they did not run
together nor did they fade.

After passing the wall of water the current did not change or flow
backward any more but continued to sweep them steadily forward. The
banks of the river grew lower, too, permitting them to see more of the
country, and presently they discovered yellow buttercups and dandelions
growing amongst the grass, from which evidence they knew they had
reached the Winkie Country.

"Don't you think we ought to land?" Dorothy asked the Scarecrow.

"Pretty soon," he replied. "The Tin Woodman's castle is in the southern
part of the Winkie Country, and so it can't be a great way from here."

[Illustration]

Fearing they might drift too far, Dorothy and Ojo now stood up and
raised the Scarecrow in their arms, as high as they could, thus allowing
him a good view of the country. For a time he saw nothing he recognized,
but finally he cried:

"There it is! There it is!"

"What?" asked Dorothy.

"The Tin Woodman's tin castle. I can see its turrets glittering in the
sun. It's quite a way off, but we'd better land as quickly as we can."

They let him down and began to urge the raft toward the shore by means
of the pole. It obeyed very well, for the current was more sluggish now,
and soon they had reached the bank and landed safely.

The Winkie Country was really beautiful, and across the fields they
could see afar the silvery sheen of the tin castle. With light hearts
they hurried toward it, being fully rested by their long ride on the
river.

By and by they began to cross an immense field of splendid yellow
lilies, the delicate fragrance of which was very delightful.

"How beautiful they are!" cried Dorothy, stopping to admire the
perfection of these exquisite flowers.

"Yes," said the Scarecrow, reflectively, "but we must be careful not to
crush or injure any of these lilies."

"Why not?" asked Ojo.

"The Tin Woodman is very kind-hearted," was the reply, "and he hates to
see any living thing hurt in any way."

"Are flowers alive?" asked Scraps.

"Yes, of course. And these flowers belong to the Tin Woodman. So, in
order not to offend him, we must not tread on a single blossom."

"Once," said Dorothy, "the Tin Woodman stepped on a beetle and killed
the little creature. That made him very unhappy and he cried until his
tears rusted his joints, so he couldn't move 'em."

"What did he do then?" asked Ojo.

"Put oil on them, until the joints worked smooth again."

"Oh!" exclaimed the boy, as if a great discovery had flashed across his
mind. But he did not tell anybody what the discovery was and kept the
idea to himself.

It was a long walk, but a pleasant one, and they did not mind it a bit.
Late in the afternoon they drew near to the wonderful tin castle of the
Emperor of the Winkies, and Ojo and Scraps, who had never seen it
before, were filled with amazement.

Tin abounded in the Winkie Country and the Winkies were said to be the
most skillful tinsmiths in all the world. So the Tin Woodman had
employed them in building his magnificent castle, which was all of tin,
from the ground to the tallest turret, and so brightly polished that it
glittered in the sun's rays more gorgeously than silver. Around the
grounds of the castle ran a tin wall, with tin gates; but the gates
stood wide open because the Emperor had no enemies to disturb him.

When they entered the spacious grounds our travelers found more to
admire. Tin fountains sent sprays of clear water far into the air and
there were many beds of tin flowers, all as perfectly formed as any
natural flowers might be. There were tin trees, too, and here and there
shady bowers of tin, with tin benches and chairs to sit upon. Also, on
the sides of the pathway leading up to the front door of the castle,
were rows of tin statuary, very cleverly executed. Among these Ojo
recognized statues of Dorothy, Toto, the Scarecrow, the Wizard, the
Shaggy Man, Jack Pumpkinhead and Ozma, all standing upon neat pedestals
of tin.

Toto was well acquainted with the residence of the Tin Woodman and,
being assured a joyful welcome, he ran ahead and barked so loudly at the
front door that the Tin Woodman heard him and came out in person to see
if it were really his old friend Toto. Next moment the tin man had
clasped the Scarecrow in a warm embrace and then turned to hug Dorothy.
But now his eye was arrested by the strange sight of the Patchwork Girl,
and he gazed upon her in mingled wonder and admiration.




THE TIN WOODMAN OBJECTS

CHAP. 27

[Illustration]


The Tin Woodman was one of the most important personages in all Oz.
Though Emperor of the Winkies, he owed allegiance to Ozma, who ruled all
the land, and the girl and the tin man were warm personal friends. He
was something of a dandy and kept his tin body brilliantly polished and
his tin joints well oiled. Also he was very courteous in manner and so
kind and gentle that everyone loved him. The Emperor greeted Ojo and
Scraps with cordial hospitality and ushered the entire party into his
handsome tin parlor, where all the furniture and pictures were made of
tin. The walls were paneled with tin and from the tin ceiling hung tin
chandeliers.

The Tin Woodman wanted to know, first of all, where Dorothy had found
the Patchwork Girl, so between them the visitors told the story of how
Scraps was made, as well as the accident to Margolotte and Unc Nunkie
and how Ojo had set out upon a journey to procure the things needed for
the Crooked Magician's magic charm. Then Dorothy told of their
adventures in the Quadling Country and how at last they succeeded in
getting the water from a dark well.

While the little girl was relating these adventures the Tin Woodman sat
in an easy chair listening with intense interest, while the others sat
grouped around him. Ojo, however, had kept his eyes fixed upon the body
of the tin Emperor, and now he noticed that under the joint of his left
knee a tiny drop of oil was forming. He watched this drop of oil with a
fast-beating heart, and feeling in his pocket brought out a tiny vial of
crystal, which he held secreted in his hand.

Presently the Tin Woodman changed his position, and at once Ojo, to the
astonishment of all, dropped to the floor and held his crystal vial
under the Emperor's knee joint. Just then the drop of oil fell, and the
boy caught it in his bottle and immediately corked it tight. Then, with
a red face and embarrassed manner, he rose to confront the others.

"What in the world were you doing?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"I caught a drop of oil that fell from your knee-joint," confessed Ojo.

"A drop of oil!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman. "Dear me, how careless my
valet must have been in oiling me this morning. I'm afraid I shall have
to scold the fellow, for I can't be dropping oil wherever I go."

"Never mind," said Dorothy. "Ojo seems glad to have the oil, for some
reason."

"Yes," declared the Munchkin boy, "I am glad. For one of the things the
Crooked Magician sent me to get was a drop of oil from a live man's
body. I had no idea, at first, that there was such a thing; but it's now
safe in the little crystal vial."

[Illustration]

"You are very welcome to it, indeed," said the Tin Woodman. "Have you
now secured all the things you were in search of?"

"Not quite all," answered Ojo. "There were five things I had to get, and
I have found four of them. I have the three hairs in the tip of a
Woozy's tail, a six-leaved clover, a gill of water from a dark well and
a drop of oil from a live man's body. The last thing is the easiest of
all to get, and I'm sure that my dear Unc Nunkie--and good Margolotte,
as well--will soon be restored to life."

The Munchkin boy said this with much pride and pleasure.

"Good!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman; "I congratulate you. But what is the
fifth and last thing you need, in order to complete the magic charm?"

"The left wing of a yellow butterfly," said Ojo. "In this yellow
country, and with your kind assistance, that ought to be very easy to
find."

The Tin Woodman stared at him in amazement.

"Surely you are joking!" he said.

"No," replied Ojo, much surprised; "I am in earnest."

"But do you think for a moment that I would permit you, or anyone else,
to pull the left wing from a yellow butterfly?" demanded the Tin Woodman
sternly.

"Why not, sir?"

"Why not? You ask me why not? It would be cruel--one of the most cruel
and heartless deeds I ever heard of," asserted the Tin Woodman. "The
butterflies are among the prettiest of all created things, and they are
very sensitive to pain. To tear a wing from one would cause it exquisite
torture and it would soon die in great agony. I would not permit such a
wicked deed under any circumstances!"

Ojo was astounded at hearing this. Dorothy, too, looked grave and
disconcerted, but she knew in her heart that the Tin Woodman was right.
The Scarecrow nodded his head in approval of his friend's speech, so it
was evident that he agreed with the Emperor's decision. Scraps looked
from one to another in perplexity.

"Who cares for a butterfly?" she asked.

"Don't you?" inquired the Tin Woodman.

"Not the snap of a finger, for I have no heart," said the Patchwork
Girl. "But I want to help Ojo, who is my friend, to rescue the uncle
whom he loves, and I'd kill a dozen useless butterflies to enable him to
do that."

The Tin Woodman sighed regretfully.

"You have kind instincts," he said, "and with a heart you would indeed
be a fine creature. I cannot blame you for your heartless remark, as you
cannot understand the feelings of those who possess hearts. I, for
instance, have a very neat and responsive heart which the wonderful
Wizard of Oz once gave me, and so I shall never--never--_never_ permit a
poor yellow butterfly to be tortured by anyone."

"The yellow country of the Winkies," said Ojo sadly, "is the only place
in Oz where a yellow butterfly can be found."

"I'm glad of that," said the Tin Woodman. "As I rule the Winkie Country,
I can protect my butterflies."

"Unless I get the wing--just one left wing--" said Ojo miserably, "I
can't save Unc Nunkie."

"Then he must remain a marble statue forever," declared the Tin Emperor,
firmly.

Ojo wiped his eyes, for he could not hold back the tears.

"I'll tell you what to do," said Scraps. "We'll take a whole yellow
butterfly, alive and well, to the Crooked Magician, and let him pull the
left wing off."

"No you won't," said the Tin Woodman. "You can't have one of my dear
little butterflies to treat in that way."

"Then what in the world shall we do?" asked Dorothy.

They all became silent and thoughtful. No one spoke for a long time.
Then the Tin Woodman suddenly roused himself and said:

"We must all go back to the Emerald City and ask Ozma's advice. She's a
wise little girl, our Ruler, and she may find a way to help Ojo save his
Unc Nunkie."

So the following morning the party started on the journey to the Emerald
City, which they reached in due time without any important adventure. It
was a sad journey for Ojo, for without the wing of the yellow butterfly
he saw no way to save Unc Nunkie--unless he waited six years for the
Crooked Magician to make a new lot of the Powder of Life. The boy was
utterly discouraged, and as he walked along he groaned aloud.

"Is anything hurting you?" inquired the Tin Woodman in a kindly tone,
for the Emperor was with the party.

"I'm Ojo the Unlucky," replied the boy. "I might have known I would fail
in anything I tried to do."

"Why are you Ojo the Unlucky?" asked the tin man.

"Because I was born on a Friday."

"Friday is not unlucky," declared the Emperor. "It's just one of seven
days. Do you suppose all the world becomes unlucky one-seventh of the
time?"

"It was the thirteenth day of the month," said Ojo.

"Thirteen! Ah, that is indeed a lucky number," replied the Tin Woodman.
"All my good luck seems to happen on the thirteenth. I suppose most
people never notice the good luck that comes to them with the number 13,
and yet if the least bit of bad luck falls on that day, they blame it to
the number, and not to the proper cause."

"Thirteen's my lucky number, too," remarked the Scarecrow.

"And mine," said Scraps. "I've just thirteen patches on my head."

"But," continued Ojo, "I'm left-handed."

"Many of our greatest men are that way," asserted the Emperor. "To be
left-handed is usually to be two-handed; the right-handed people are
usually one-handed."

"And I've a wart under my right arm," said Ojo.

"How lucky!" cried the Tin Woodman. "If it were on the end of your nose
it might be unlucky, but under your arm it is luckily out of the way."

"For all those reasons," said the Munchkin boy, "I have been called Ojo
the Unlucky."

"Then we must turn over a new leaf and call you henceforth Ojo the
Lucky," declared the tin man. "Every reason you have given is absurd.
But I have noticed that those who continually dread ill luck and fear it
will overtake them, have no time to take advantage of any good fortune
that comes their way. Make up your mind to be Ojo the Lucky."

"How can I?" asked the boy, "when all my attempts to save my dear uncle
have failed?"

"Never give up, Ojo," advised Dorothy. "No one ever knows what's going
to happen next."

Ojo did not reply, but he was so dejected that even their arrival at the
Emerald City failed to interest him.

The people joyfully cheered the appearance of the Tin Woodman, the
Scarecrow and Dorothy, who were all three general favorites, and on
entering the royal palace word came to them from Ozma that she would at
once grant them an audience.

Dorothy told the girl Ruler how successful they had been in their quest
until they came to the item of the yellow butterfly, which the Tin
Woodman positively refused to sacrifice to the magic potion.

[Illustration]

"He is quite right," said Ozma, who did not seem a bit surprised. "Had
Ojo told me that one of the things he sought was the wing of a yellow
butterfly I would have informed him, before he started out, that he
could never secure it. Then you would have been saved the troubles and
annoyances of your long journey."

"I didn't mind the journey at all," said Dorothy; "it was fun."

"As it has turned out," remarked Ojo, "I can never get the things the
Crooked Magician sent me for; and so, unless I wait the six years for
him to make the Powder of Life, Unc Nunkie cannot be saved."

Ozma smiled.

"Dr. Pipt will make no more Powder of Life, I promise you," said she. "I
have sent for him and had him brought to this palace, where he now is,
and his four kettles have been destroyed and his book of recipes burned
up. I have also had brought here the marble statues of your uncle and of
Margolotte, which are standing in the next room."

They were all greatly astonished at this announcement.

"Oh, let me see Unc Nunkie! Let me see him at once, please!" cried Ojo
eagerly.

"Wait a moment," replied Ozma, "for I have something more to say.
Nothing that happens in the Land of Oz escapes the notice of our wise
Sorceress, Glinda the Good. She knew all about the magic-making of Dr.
Pipt, and how he had brought the Glass Cat and the Patchwork Girl to
life, and the accident to Unc Nunkie and Margolotte, and of Ojo's quest
and his journey with Dorothy. Glinda also knew that Ojo would fail to
find all the things he sought, so she sent for our Wizard and instructed
him what to do. Something is going to happen in this palace, presently,
and that 'something' will, I am sure, please you all. And now,"
continued the girl Ruler, rising from her chair, "you may follow me into
the next room."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]




THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ

CHAP. 28

[Illustration]


When Ojo entered the room he ran quickly to the statue of Unc Nunkie and
kissed the marble face affectionately.

"I did my best, Unc," he said, with a sob, "but it was no use!"

Then he drew back and looked around the room, and the sight of the
assembled company quite amazed him.

Aside from the marble statues of Unc Nunkie and Margolotte, the Glass
Cat was there, curled up on a rug; and the Woozy was there, sitting on
its square hind legs and looking on the scene with solemn interest; and
there was the Shaggy Man, in a suit of shaggy pea-green satin, and at a
table sat the little Wizard, looking quite important and as if he knew
much more than he cared to tell.

Last of all, Dr. Pipt was there, and the Crooked Magician sat humped up
in a chair, seeming very dejected but keeping his eyes fixed on the
lifeless form of his wife Margolotte, whom he fondly loved but whom he
now feared was lost to him forever.

Ozma took a chair which Jellia Jamb wheeled forward for the Ruler, and
back of her stood the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman and Dorothy, as well as
the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger. The Wizard now arose and made a
low bow to Ozma and another less deferent bow to the assembled company.

"Ladies and gentlemen and beasts," he said, "I beg to announce that our
Gracious Ruler has permitted me to obey the commands of the great
Sorceress, Glinda the Good, whose humble Assistant I am proud to be. We
have discovered that the Crooked Magician has been indulging in his
magical arts contrary to Law, and therefore, by Royal Edict, I hereby
deprive him of all power to work magic in the future. He is no longer a
crooked magician, but a simple Munchkin; he is no longer even crooked,
but a man like other men."

As he pronounced these words the Wizard waved his hand toward Dr. Pipt
and instantly every crooked limb straightened out and became perfect.
The former magician, with a cry of joy, sprang to his feet, looked at
himself in wonder, and then fell back in his chair and watched the
Wizard with fascinated interest.

[Illustration]

"The Glass Cat, which Dr. Pipt lawlessly made," continued the Wizard,
"is a pretty cat, but its pink brains made it so conceited that it was a
disagreeable companion to everyone. So the other day I took away the
pink brains and replaced them with transparent ones, and now the Glass
Cat is so modest and well behaved that Ozma has decided to keep her in
the palace as a pet."

"I thank you," said the cat, in a soft voice.

"The Woozy has proved himself a good Woozy and a faithful friend," the
Wizard went on, "so we will send him to the Royal Menagerie, where he
will have good care and plenty to eat all his life."

"Much obliged," said the Woozy. "That beats being fenced up in a lonely
forest and starved."

"As for the Patchwork Girl," resumed the Wizard, "she is so remarkable
in appearance, and so clever and good tempered, that our Gracious Ruler
intends to preserve her carefully, as one of the curiosities of the
curious Land of Oz. Scraps may live in the palace, or wherever she
pleases, and be nobody's servant but her own."

"That's all right," said Scraps.

"We have all been interested in Ojo," the little Wizard continued,
"because his love for his unfortunate uncle has led him bravely to face
all sorts of dangers, in order that he might rescue him. The Munchkin
boy has a loyal and generous heart and has done his best to restore Unc
Nunkie to life. He has failed, but there are others more powerful than
the Crooked Magician, and there are more ways than Dr. Pipt knew of to
destroy the charm of the Liquid of Petrifaction. Glinda the Good has
told me of one way, and you shall now learn how great is the knowledge
and power of our peerless Sorceress."

[Illustration]

As he said this the Wizard advanced to the statue of Margolotte and made
a magic pass, at the same time muttering a magic word that none could
hear distinctly. At once the woman moved, turned her head wonderingly
this way and that, to note all who stood before her, and seeing Dr.
Pipt, ran forward and threw herself into her husband's outstretched
arms.

Then the Wizard made the magic pass and spoke the magic word before the
statue of Unc Nunkie. The old Munchkin immediately came to life and with
a low bow to the Wizard said: "Thanks."

But now Ojo rushed up and threw his arms joyfully about his uncle, and
the old man hugged his little nephew tenderly and stroked his hair and
wiped away the boy's tears with a handkerchief, for Ojo was crying from
pure happiness.

Ozma came forward to congratulate them.

"I have given to you, my dear Ojo and Unc Nunkie, a nice house just
outside the walls of the Emerald City," she said, "and there you shall
make your future home and be under my protection."

"Didn't I say you were Ojo the Lucky?" asked the Tin Woodman, as
everyone crowded around to shake Ojo's hand.

"Yes; and it is true!" replied Ojo, gratefully.


[Illustration]



